Question number 1 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
According to the 25th verse, Judas went where?
[A 1:25]	as an apostle to replace Judas in this ministry, for he has deserted us and gone where  he belongs."

Question number 2 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Promise of the Holy Spirit."
Through whom did Jesus give his chosen apostles, quote, "further instructions"?
[A 1:2]	until the day he was taken up to heaven after giving his chosen apostles further instructions through the Holy Spirit.

Question number 3 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
How does the opening verse describe the apostles?
[A 1:12]	Then the apostles returned to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives, a distance of half  a mile.

Question number 4 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Promise of the Holy Spirit."
What command did Jesus give the apostles?
[A 1:4]	Once when he was eating with them, he commanded them, "Do not leave Jerusalem  until the Father sends you the gift he promised, as I told you before.

Question number 5 for 30 points. Statement and quotation question. From Acts chapter 1.
The Kingdom of God is mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 1:3]	During the forty days after he suffered and died, he appeared to the apostles from time to time, and he proved to them in many ways that he was actually alive. And he talked to them about the Kingdom of God.

Question number 6 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
When they arrived, where did the apostles go?
[A 1:13]	When they arrived, they went to the upstairs room of the house where they were  staying. Here are the names of those who were present: Peter, John, James, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James (son of Alphaeus), Simon (the zealot), and Judas (son of James).

Question number 7 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
How does the 24th verse describe the apostles?
[A 1:24]	Then they all prayed, "O Lord, you know every heart. Show us which of these men  you have chosen

Question number 8 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 1.
Who nominated two men?
[A 1:23]	So they (the apostles) nominated two men: Joseph called Barsabbas (also known as Justus) and Matthias.

Question number 9 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 1.
In the 6th verse, how do the apostles address Jesus?
[A 1:6]	So when the apostles were with Jesus, they kept asking him, "Lord, has the time come for you to free Israel and restore our kingdom?"

Question number 10 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Promise of the Holy Spirit."
When did Jesus command what?
[A 1:4]	Once when he was eating with them, he commanded them, "Do not leave Jerusalem  until the Father sends you the gift he promised, as I told you before.

Question number 11 for 20 points. 2-Part chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
Concerning Judas, what Old Testament Scriptures are found?
[A 1:20]	Let his home become desolate, with no one living in it.
Let someone else take his position.

Question number 12 for 10 points. Statement and question.
Acts chapter 1 contains one word specifically described as Aramaic. What is it?
[A 1:19]	The news of his death spread to all the people of Jerusalem, and they gave the place the Aramaic name Akeldama, which means "Field of Blood.")

Question number 13 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Ascension of Jesus."
About clouds, what did Luke say?
[A 1:9]	After saying this, he was taken up into a cloud while they were watching, and they  could no longer see him.

Question number 14 for 30 points. 2-Part chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 1.
White-robed men said what?
[A 1:11]	"Men of Galilee, why are you standing here staring into heaven? Jesus has been taken from you into heaven, but someday he will return from heaven in the same way you saw him go!"

Question number 15 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
Who was baptized by whom?
[A 1:22]	from the time he (Jesus) was baptized by John until the day he was taken from us.
Whoever is chosen will join us as a witness of Jesus' resurrection."

Question number 16 for 20 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
Judas bought what with what?
[A 1:18]	(Judas had bought a field with the money he received for his treachery. Falling headfirst there, his body split open, spilling out all his intestines.

Question number 17 for 10 points. 3-Part question. From the section titled, "The Ascension of Jesus."
Who strained to see whom rising into what?
[A 1:10]	As they (the apostles) strained to see him (Jesus) rising into heaven, two white- robed men suddenly stood among them.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
According to the 25th verse, why did the apostles replace Judas in the ministry?
[A 1:25]	as an apostle to replace Judas in this ministry, for he has deserted us and gone where  he belongs."

Question number 19 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
The Holy Spirit spoke through whom?
[A 1:16]	"Brothers," he said, "the Scriptures had to be fulfilled concerning Judas, who guided those who arrested Jesus. This was predicted long ago by the Holy Spirit, speaking through King David.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts chapter 1.
Give, in essence, the opening verse.
[A 1:1]	In my first book I told you, Theophilus, about everything Jesus began to do and teach

Question number 1 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 1.
Which zealot is named?
[A 1:13]	Simon

Question number 2 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 1.
Who was selected to become an apostle? [A 1:26]	Matthias

Question number 3 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Ascension of Jesus."
How did Jesus reply to the apostles' question, quote, "Lord, has the time come for you to free Israel and restore our kingdom?"
[A 1:7]	He replied, "The Father alone has the authority to set those dates and times, and  they are not for you to know.

Question number 4 for 30 points. Scripture text quotation question. From Acts chapter 1.
Quote the verse in which Jesus addresses the apostles as, quote, "Men of Galilee."
[A 1:11]	"Men of Galilee," they said, "why are you standing here staring into heaven? Jesus has been taken from you into heaven, but someday he will return from heaven in the same way you saw him go!"

Question number 5 for 20 points. Statement and essence question. From Acts chapter 1.
One verse contains Old Testament scripture. Give, in essence, this verse.
[A 1:20]	Peter continued, "This was written in the book of Psalms, where it says, 'Let his home become desolate, with no one living in it.' It also says, 'Let someone else take his position.'

Question number 6 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 1.
According to the 9th verse, after Jesus spoke, what happened?
[A 1:9]	After saying this, he was taken up into a cloud while they were watching, and they  could no longer see him.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
According to the 3rd verse, about what did Jesus talk to the apostles?
[A 1:3]	During the forty days after he suffered and died, he appeared to the apostles from time to time, and he proved to them in many ways that he was actually alive. And he talked to them about the Kingdom of God.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Ascension of Jesus."
Suddenly, what happened?
[A 1:10]	As they strained to see him rising into heaven, two white-robed men suddenly stood  among them.

Question number 9 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
According to the 21st verse, from among whom was a replacement for Judas chosen?
[A 1:21]	"So now we must choose a replacement for Judas from among the men who were  with us the entire time we were traveling with the Lord Jesus-

Question number 10 for 30 points. 13-Part chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 1.
Verse 13 names which individuals? [A 1:13]	Peter
John James Andrew Philip Thomas
Bartholomew Matthew
James (son of Alphaeus) Alphaeus
Simon (the zealot) Judas (son of James) James (father of Judas)

Question number 11 for 10 points. From the section titled, "The Ascension of Jesus."
Someday, Jesus will return from where?
[A 1:11]	"Men of Galilee," they said, "why are you standing here staring into heaven? Jesus has been taken from you into heaven, but someday he will return from heaven in the same way you saw him go!"

Question number 12 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Promise of the Holy Spirit."
About baptism, what did Jesus say?
[A 1:5]	John baptized with water, but in just a few days you will be baptized with the Holy  Spirit."

Question number 13 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
How far is Jerusalem from the, quote, "Mount of Olives"?
[A 1:12]	Then the apostles returned to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives, a distance of half  a mile.

Question number 14 for 30 points. Statement and question. Chapter analysis answer. From 2 consecutive verses of Acts chapter 1.
One two-verse parenthetical statement is contained. Give this parenthetical statement.
[A 1:18]	(Judas had bought a field with the money he received for his treachery. Falling headfirst there, his body split open, spilling out all his intestines.
[A 1:19]	The news of his death spread to all the people of Jerusalem, and they gave the place the Aramaic name Akeldama, which means "Field of Blood.")

Question number 15 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Promise of the Holy Spirit."
After what was Jesus, quote, "taken up to heaven"?
[A 1:2]	until the day he was taken up to heaven after giving his chosen apostles further  instructions through the Holy Spirit.

Question number 16 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
What split open and what spilled out?
[A 1:18]	(Judas had bought a field with the money he received for his treachery. Falling headfirst there, his body split open, spilling out all his intestines.

Question number 17 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "The Ascension of Jesus."
How does Luke complete the phrase, quote, "ends of"?
[A 1:8]	But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me everywhere- in Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth."

Question number 18 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 1.
Verse 6 contains which question?
[A 1:6]	"Lord, has the time come for you to free Israel and restore our kingdom?"

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Promise of the Holy Spirit."
What had Jesus told the apostles before?
[A 1:4]	Once when he was eating with them, he commanded them, "Do not leave Jerusalem until the Father sends you the gift he promised, as I told you before.

Question number 20 for 10 points. Statement and question.
Acts chapter 1 mentions one Old Testament book. Name this Old Testament book.
[A 1:20]	Peter continued, "This was written in the book of Psalms, where it says, 'Let his home become desolate, with no one living in it.' It also says, 'Let someone else take his position.'

Question number 1 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
For a long time, what did Peter do?
[A 2:40]	Then Peter continued preaching for a long time, strongly urging all his listeners,  "Save yourselves from this crooked generation!"

Question number 2 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Holy Spirit Comes."
What ability did the Holy Spirit give to, quote, "everyone present"?
[A 2:4]	And everyone present was filled with the Holy Spirit and began speaking in other  languages, as the Holy Spirit gave them this ability.

Question number 3 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 2.
Which Nazarene is named?
[A 2:22]	"People of Israel, listen! God publicly endorsed Jesus the Nazarene by doing powerful miracles, wonders, and signs through him, as you well know.

Question number 4 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Jesus is exalted to what, where?
[A 2:33]	Now he is exalted to the place of highest honor in heaven, at God's right hand. And the Father, as he had promised, gave him the Holy Spirit to pour out upon us, just as you see and hear today.

Question number 5 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 2.
Which province is named? [A 2:9]	Asia

Question number 6 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Think about what and why?
[A 2:29]	"Dear brothers, think about this! You can be sure that the patriarch David wasn't  referring to himself, for he died and was buried, and his tomb is still here among us.

Question number 7 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Peter shouted to whom?
[A 2:14]	Then Peter stepped forward with the eleven other apostles and shouted to the crowd, "Listen carefully, all of you, fellow Jews and residents of Jerusalem! Make no mistake about this.

Question number 8 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Form a Community."
With what did believers share their meals?
[A 2:46]	They worshiped together at the Temple each day, met in homes for the Lord's Supper, and shared their meals with great joy and generosity-

Question number 9 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
How does the 27th verse describe God?
[A 2:27]	For you will not leave my soul among the dead or allow your Holy One to rot in the  grave.

Question number 10 for 20 points. 2-part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Publicly, what did God do, how?
[A 2:22]	"People of Israel, listen! God publicly endorsed Jesus the Nazarene by doing  powerful miracles, wonders, and signs through him, as you well know.

Question number 11 for 30 points. Give 4 complete answers. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 17th verse, in the last days, what will happen?
[A 2:17]	'In the last days,' God says, 'I will pour out my Spirit upon all people. Your sons  and daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions, and your old men  will dream dreams.

Question number 12 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
What could not keep Jesus, quote, "in its grip"?
[A 2:24]	But God released him from the horrors of death and raised him back to life, for death could not keep him in its grip.

Question number 13 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 2.
What kind of noise is mentioned?
[A 2:6]	When they heard the loud noise, everyone came running, and they were bewildered to hear their own languages being spoken by the believers.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Statement and essence question. From Acts chapter 2.
Tongues of fire are mentioned in one verse. Give, in essence, this verse.
[A 2:3]	Then, what looked like flames or tongues of fire appeared and settled on each of them.

Question number 15 for 30 points. Quotation completion question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Finish this verse, quote, "People of Israel..."
[A 2:22]	"People of Israel, listen! God publicly endorsed Jesus the Nazarene by doing powerful miracles, wonders, and signs through him, as you well know.

Question number 16 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 2.
Devout Jews from where lived where?
[A 2:5]	At that time there were devout Jews from every nation living in Jerusalem.

Question number 17 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
According to the opening verse, who exclaimed what? [A 2:14]	Peter
[]	Listen carefully, all of you, fellow Jews and residents of Jerusalem!

Question number 18 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
What will happen before that, quote, "great and glorious day of the LORD"?
[A 2:20]	The sun will become dark, and the moon will turn blood red before that great and glorious day of the LORD arrives.

Question number 19 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 2.
The unique word "mighty" is used to describe what?
[A 2:2]	Suddenly, there was a sound from heaven like the roaring of a mighty windstorm, and it filled the house where they were sitting.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
What did Peter say to let everyone in Israel, quote, "know for certain"?
[A 2:36]	"So let everyone in Israel know for certain that God has made this Jesus, whom you  crucified, to be both Lord and Messiah!"

Question number 1 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
In the 29th verse, how did Peter address the crowd?
[A 2:29]	"Dear brothers, think about this! You can be sure that the patriarch David wasn't referring to himself, for he died and was buried, and his tomb is still here among us.

Question number 2 for 20 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "The Believers Form a Community."
All the believers praised whom and enjoyed what?
[A 2:47]	all the while praising God and enjoying the goodwill of all the people. And each day the Lord added to their fellowship those who were being saved.

Question number 3 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 18th verse, in those days, what will happen?
[A 2:18]	In those days I will pour out my Spirit even on my servants- men and women  alike- and they will prophesy.

Question number 4 for 30 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
The cross of Christ is mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 2:23]	But God knew what would happen, and his prearranged plan was carried out when Jesus was betrayed. With the help of lawless Gentiles, you nailed him to a cross and killed him.

Question number 5 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Form a Community."
What came over the apostles and what did they do as a result?
[A 2:43]	A deep sense of awe came over them all, and the apostles performed many  miraculous signs and wonders.

Question number 6 for 10 points. 5-Part chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 2.
Verse 9 names which geographical locations? [A 2:9]	Mesopotamia
Judea Cappadocia Pontus Asia

Question number 7 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Who did Peter tell to, quote, "listen carefully"?
[A 2:14]	Then Peter stepped forward with the eleven other apostles and shouted to the crowd, "Listen carefully, all of you, fellow Jews and residents of Jerusalem! Make no mistake about this.

Question number 8 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
How does the opening verse describe Peter?
[A 2:14]	Then Peter stepped forward with the eleven other apostles and shouted to the crowd,  "Listen carefully, all of you, fellow Jews and residents of Jerusalem! Make no  mistake about this.

Question number 9 for 10 points. Statement and question. 3-Part answer. From Acts chapter 2.
In the 19th verse, Joel gives three examples of wonders and signs. Give these examples.
[A 2:19]	And I will cause wonders in the heavens above and signs on the earth below- blood and fire and clouds of smoke.

Question number 10 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 2.
How does Luke complete the phrase, quote, "areas of"? [A 2:10]	Libya

Question number 11 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 2.
Verse 40 names which individual and contains which exclamation? [A 2:40]	Peter
[]	"Save yourselves from this crooked generation!"

Question number 12 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
What was prearranged?
[A 2:23]	But God knew what would happen, and his prearranged plan was carried out when Jesus was betrayed. With the help of lawless Gentiles, you nailed him to a cross and killed him.

Question number 13 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
How does the 12th verse describe the crowd?
[A 2:12]	They stood there amazed and perplexed. "What can this mean?" they asked each  other.

Question number 14 for 30 points. 2-Part question. 5-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Form a Community."
Who devoted themselves to what?
[A 2:42]	All the believers devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, and to fellowship, and to sharing in meals (including the Lord's Supper), and to prayer.

Question number 15 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
How did God publicly endorse Jesus?
[A 2:22]	"People of Israel, listen! God publicly endorsed Jesus the Nazarene by doing powerful miracles, wonders, and signs through him, as you well know.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 11th verse, God has done what?
[A 2:11]	(both Jews and converts to Judaism), Cretans, and Arabs. And we all hear these people speaking in our own languages about the wonderful things God has done!"

Question number 17 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
Why did David say Jesus would not, quote, "be shaken"?
[A 2:25]	King David said this about him: 'I see that the LORD is always with me. I will not be shaken, for he is right beside me.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 36 from the 2nd chapter.
[A 2:36]	"So let everyone in Israel know for certain that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, to be both Lord and Messiah!"

Question number 19 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
What did Peter say was true just as you, quote, "see and hear today"?
[A 2:33]	Now he is exalted to the place of highest honor in heaven, at God's right hand. And the Father, as he had promised, gave him the Holy Spirit to pour out upon us, just as you see and hear today.

Question number 20 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
Who ridiculed the believers?
[A 2:13]	But others in the crowd ridiculed them, saying, "They're just drunk, that's all!"

Question number 1 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 3.
Which Temple gate is mentioned?
[A 3:2]	As they approached the Temple, a man lame from birth was being carried in. Each day he was put beside the Temple gate, the one called the Beautiful Gate, so he could beg from the people going into the Temple.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Statement and question. From Acts chapter 3.
A timeless children's Sunday School song says about the man who had been lame, he went, quote, "walking and leaping and praising God." Give the complete reference for the verse from which this line of the song was taken.
[A 3:8]	3:8

Question number 3 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
How does the 16th verse describe the man who had been lame?
[A 3:16]	"Through faith in the name of Jesus, this man was healed- and you know how  crippled he was before. Faith in Jesus' name has healed him before your very eyes.

Question number 4 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 3.
The word "absolutely" is used to describe what?
[A 3:10]	When they realized he was the lame beggar they had seen so often at the Beautiful Gate, they were absolutely astounded!

Question number 5 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 3.
Verse 6 names which individual and contains which exclamation? [A 3:6]	Peter
[]	In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, get up and walk!

Question number 6 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
According to the Old Testament, who will be blessed through whom?
[A 3:25]	You are the children of those prophets, and you are included in the covenant God promised to your ancestors. For God said to Abraham, 'Through your descendants  all the families on earth will be blessed.'

Question number 7 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
How does Luke complete the phrase, quote, "restoration of"?
[A 3:21]	For he must remain in heaven until the time for the final restoration of all things, as God promised long ago through his holy prophets.

Question number 8 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
According to the 6th verse, Peter said what?
[A 3:6]	But Peter said, "I don't have any silver or gold for you. But I'll give you what I  have. In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, get up and walk!"

Question number 9 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
First, to whom did God send Jesus?
[A 3:26]	When God raised up his servant, Jesus, he sent him first to you people of Israel, to bless you by turning each of you back from your sinful ways."

Question number 10 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
According to the 15th verse, Israel killed whom?
[A 3:15]	You killed the author of life, but God raised him from the dead. And we are witnesses of this fact!

Question number 11 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
Who will be completely cut off from whom?
[A 3:23]	Then Moses said, 'Anyone who will not listen to that Prophet will be completely cut off from God's people.'

Question number 12 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
As Peter did what were the man's feet and ankles, quote, "instantly healed and strengthened"?
[A 3:7]	Then Peter took the lame man by the right hand and helped him up. And as he did, the man's feet and ankles were instantly healed and strengthened.

Question number 13 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From Acts chapter 3.
According to the 24th verse, who spoke about what is happening today?
[A 3:24]	"Starting with Samuel, every prophet spoke about what is happening today.

Question number 14 for 30 points. Quotation question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
Quote the verse in which Pilate is named.
[A 3:13]	For it is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob- the God of all our ancestors- who has brought glory to his servant Jesus by doing this. This is the same Jesus whom you handed over and rejected before Pilate, despite Pilate's decision to release him.

Question number 15 for 20 points. 4-Part answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
God is the God of whom?
[A 3:13]	For it is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob- the God of all our ancestors- who has brought glory to his servant Jesus by doing this. This is the same Jesus whom you handed over and rejected before Pilate, despite Pilate's decision to release him.

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
How does the opening verse describe Peter and John?
[A 3:1]	Peter and John went to the Temple one afternoon to take part in the three o'clock  prayer service.

Question number 17 for 10 points. 2-Part scripture text question. From Acts chapter 3.
Who said to whom, quote, "Through your descendants all the families on earth will be blessed"?
[A 3:25]	You are the children of those prophets, and you are included in the covenant God promised to your ancestors. For God said to Abraham, 'Through your descendants all the families on earth will be blessed.'

Question number 18 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
After repenting of your sins, what should you do and why?
[A 3:19]	Now repent of your sins and turn to God, so that your sins may be wiped away.

Question number 19 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 16 from the 3rd chapter.
[A 3:16]	"Through faith in the name of Jesus, this man was healed- and you know how crippled he was before. Faith in Jesus' name has healed him before your very eyes.

Question number 20 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
How did the lame man look at Peter and John?
[A 3:5]	The lame man looked at them eagerly, expecting some money.

Question number 1 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
God fulfilled what?
[A 3:18]	But God was fulfilling what all the prophets had foretold about the Messiah- that  he must suffer these things.

Question number 2 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 3.
Verse 23 names which individual and contains which Old Testament Scripture? [A 3:23]	Moses
[]	'Anyone who will not listen to that Prophet will be completely cut off from God's people.'

Question number 3 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
Samuel spoke about what?
[A 3:24]	"Starting with Samuel, every prophet spoke about what is happening today.

Question number 4 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
The lame man begged from whom?
[A 3:2]	As they approached the Temple, a man lame from birth was being carried in. Each day he was put beside the Temple gate, the one called the Beautiful Gate, so he could beg from the people going into the Temple.

Question number 5 for 30 points. Statement and essence question. From Acts chapter 3.
One verse names Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Give, in essence, this verse.
[A 3:13]	For it is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob-the God of all our ancestors- who has brought glory to his servant Jesus by doing this. This is the same Jesus whom you handed over and rejected before Pilate, despite Pilate's decision to release him.

Question number 6 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
Who was rejected before whom?
[A 3:13]	For it is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob-the God of all our ancestors- who has brought glory to his servant Jesus by doing this. This is the same Jesus whom you handed over and rejected before Pilate, despite Pilate's decision to release him.

Question number 7 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
According to the 9th verse, who heard what?
[A 3:9]	All the people saw him walking and heard him praising God.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Scripture text quotation question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
Quote the verse that refers to Jesus as the, quote, "holy, righteous one."
[A 3:14]	You rejected this holy, righteous one and instead demanded the release of a murderer.

Question number 9 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
How does the 2nd verse describe the lame man?
[A 3:2]	As they approached the Temple, a man lame from birth was being carried in. Each  day he was put beside the Temple gate, the one called the Beautiful Gate, so he  could beg from the people going into the Temple.

Question number 10 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 3.
Whose Colonnade is mentioned? [A 3:11]	Solomon

Question number 11 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
Why are the children of the prophets included in the, quote, "covenant God promised to your ancestors"? [A 3:25]	You are the children of those prophets, and you are included in the covenant God
promised to your ancestors. For God said to Abraham, 'Through your descendants  all the families on earth will be blessed.'

Question number 12 for 10 points. 3-Part question. 4-Part answer. From Acts chapter 3.
According to the 3rd verse, who asked for what?
[A 3:3]	When he saw Peter and John about to enter, he (the lame man) asked them for some  money.

Question number 13 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
According to the 16th verse, how and where was the man healed?
[A 3:16]	"Through faith in the name of Jesus, this man was healed-and you know how crippled he was before. Faith in Jesus' name has healed him before your very eyes.

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
According to the 16th verse, Israel knew what?
[A 3:16]	"Through faith in the name of Jesus, this man was healed-and you know how  crippled he was before. Faith in Jesus' name has healed him before your very eyes.

Question number 15 for 30 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
When were all the people, quote, "absolutely astounded"?
[A 3:10]	When they realized he was the lame beggar they had seen so often at the Beautiful  Gate, they were absolutely astounded!

Question number 16 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 3.
The word "sinful" is used to describe what?
[A 3:26]	When God raised up his servant, Jesus, he sent him first to you people of Israel, to bless you by turning each of you back from your sinful ways."

Question number 17 for 20 points. 4-Part answer. From Acts chapter 3.
Verse 13 names which individuals? [A 3:13]	Abraham
[]	Isaac
[]	Jacob
[]	Pilate

Question number 18 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
All the people realized what and what resulted?
[A 3:10]	When they realized he was the lame beggar they had seen so often at the Beautiful  Gate, they were absolutely astounded!

Question number 19 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
Who will raise up a Prophet?
[A 3:22]	Moses said, 'The LORD your God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from among your own people. Listen carefully to everything he tells you.'

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
How does the 8th verse describe the man who had been lame?
[A 3:8]	He jumped up, stood on his feet, and began to walk! Then, walking, leaping, and  praising God, he went into the Temple with them.

Question number 1 for 20 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 8th verse, who said what?
[A 4:8]	Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers and elders of our  people,

Question number 2 for 10 points. Scripture text question. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
Against whom had rulers, quote, "gathered together"?
[A 4:26]	The kings of the earth prepared for battle; the rulers gathered together against the  LORD and against his Messiah.'

Question number 3 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 11th verse, who is Jesus?
[A 4:11]	For Jesus is the one referred to in the Scriptures, where it says, 'The stone that you  builders rejected has now become the cornerstone.'

Question number 4 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
Finally, why did the council let Peter and John go?
[A 4:21]	The council then threatened them further, but they finally let them go because they  didn't know how to punish them without starting a riot. For everyone was praising  God

Question number 5 for 20 points. 3-Part question. 4-Part chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 4.
Verse 36 names which individuals, contains which parenthetical statement, and names which geographical location?
[A 4:36]	Joseph OR Barnabas
[]	(which means "Son of Encouragement")
[]	Levi
[]	Cyprus

Question number 6 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
What is powerful?
[A 4:10]	Let me clearly state to all of you and to all the people of Israel that he was healed by the powerful name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, the man you crucified but whom God raised from the dead.

Question number 7 for 10 points. 2-Part question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 4.
Who was nicknamed what?
[A 4:36]	Joseph; Barnabas

Question number 8 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
How does the closing verse describe Joseph?
[A 4:37]	He sold a field he owned and brought the money to the apostles.

Question number 9 for 30 points. 2-Part chapter analysis answer. From 2 consecutive verses of the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
Filled with the Holy Spirit, what questions did Peter ask? [A 4:8]	"Rulers and elders of our people,
[A 4:9]	are we being questioned today because we've done a good deed for a crippled man? []	 Do you want to know how he was healed?

Question number 10 for 10 points. 2-Part question. 3-Part answer. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 2nd verse, who were teaching whom?
[A 4:2]	These leaders were very disturbed that Peter and John were teaching the people that through Jesus there is a resurrection of the dead.

Question number 11 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Share Their Possessions."
Believers were united in what?
[A 4:32]	All the believers were united in heart and mind. And they felt that what they owned was not their own, so they shared everything they had.

Question number 12 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
How does the 23rd verse describe Peter and John?
[A 4:23]	As soon as they were freed, Peter and John returned to the other believers and told  them what the leading priests and elders had said.

Question number 13 for 10 points. 4-Part chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 4.
Verse 6 names which individuals? [A 4:6]	Annas
[]	Caiaphas
[]	John
[]	Alexander

Question number 14 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 25th verse, long ago, what did God do?
[A 4:25]	you spoke long ago by the Holy Spirit through our ancestor David, your servant,  saying, 'Why were the nations so angry? Why did they waste their time with futile  plans?

Question number 15 for 20 points. 2-Part question. 5-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
Who were all united against whom?
[A 4:27]	"In fact, this has happened here in this very city! For Herod Antipas, Pontius Pilate  the governor, the Gentiles, and the people of Israel were all united against Jesus,  your holy servant, whom you anointed.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
Who were amazed when they saw the, quote, "boldness of Peter and John"?
[A 4:13]	The members of the council were amazed when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, for they could see that they were ordinary men with no special training in the Scriptures. They also recognized them as men who had been with Jesus.

Question number 17 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 31st verse, what was preached with what?
[A 4:31]	After this prayer, the meeting place shook, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. Then they preached the word of God with boldness.

Question number 18 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
Long ago, God spoke by whom through whom?
[A 4:25]	you spoke long ago by the Holy Spirit through our ancestor David, your servant, saying, 'Why were the nations so angry? Why did they waste their time with futile plans?

Question number 19 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
When did the believers preach the, quote, "word of God with boldness"?
[A 4:31]	After this prayer, the meeting place shook, and they were all filled with the Holy  Spirit. Then they preached the word of God with boldness.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
The council couldn't deny what?
[A 4:16]	"What should we do with these men?" they asked each other. "We can't deny that  they have performed a miraculous sign, and everybody in Jerusalem knows about it.

Question number 1 for 20 points. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
After this prayer, what happened?
[A 4:31]	After this prayer, the meeting place shook, and they were all filled with the Holy  Spirit. Then they preached the word of God with boldness.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 10th verse, who was Jesus?
[A 4:10]	Let me clearly state to all of you and to all the people of Israel that he was healed by the powerful name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, the man you crucified but whom  God raised from the dead.

Question number 3 for 10 points. 2-Part question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 4.
Joseph was from which tribe and which island? [A 4:36]	Levi
Cyprus

Question number 4 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
How does the 16th verse describe the council?
[A 4:16]	"What should we do with these men?" they asked each other. "We can't deny that  they have performed a miraculous sign, and everybody in Jerusalem knows about it.

Question number 5 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 4.
Who is the one referred to in the Scripture, quote, "The stone you builders rejected has now become the cornerstone"?
[A 4:11]	For Jesus is the one referred to in the Scriptures, where it says, 'The stone that you builders rejected has now become the cornerstone.'

Question number 6 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 7th verse, what did leaders do?
[A 4:7]	They brought in the two disciples and demanded, "By what power, or in whose  name, have you done this?"

Question number 7 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
As soon as they were freed, what did Peter and John do?
[A 4:23]	As soon as they were freed, Peter and John returned to the other believers and told  them what the leading priests and elders had said.

Question number 8 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
Peter was ordered where?
[A 4:15]	So they ordered Peter and John out of the council chamber and conferred among themselves.

Question number 9 for 20 points. 2-Part question. 3-Part chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 4.
Verse 27 contains which exclamation and names which individuals? [A 4:27]	"In fact, this has happened here in this very city! []	 Herod Antipas
[]	Pontius Pilate

Question number 10 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 21st verse, what did the council do and why?
[A 4:21]	The council then threatened them further, but they finally let them go because they  didn't know how to punish them without starting a riot. For everyone was praising  God

Question number 11 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
What spreads?
[A 4:17]	But to keep them from spreading their propaganda any further, we must warn them not to speak to anyone in Jesus' name again."

Question number 12 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 4.
What could the council say since they could see the man who had been healed standing, quote, "right there among them"?
[A 4:14]	But since they could see the man who had been healed standing right there among them, there was nothing the council could say.

Question number 13 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
What did the council say they must warn Peter and John not to do and why?
[A 4:17]	But to keep them from spreading their propaganda any further, we must warn them not to speak to anyone in Jesus' name again."

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
According to the closing verse, how long had the man been lame?
[A 4:22]	for this miraculous sign- the healing of a man who had been lame for more than  forty years.

Question number 15 for 30 points. 3-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
Who were amazed, when, and why?
[A 4:13]	The members of the council were amazed when they saw the boldness of Peter and  John, for they could see that they were ordinary men with no special training in the  Scriptures. They also recognized them as men who had been with Jesus.

Question number 16 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 3rd verse, what did leaders do and why?
[A 4:3]	They arrested them and, since it was already evening, put them in jail until morning.

Question number 17 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
Who lifted their voices together in, quote, "prayer to God"?
[A 4:24]	When they heard the report, all the believers lifted their voices together in prayer to God: "O Sovereign Lord, Creator of heaven and earth, the sea, and everything in them-

Question number 18 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
Why were leaders, quote, "very disturbed"?
[A 4:2]	These leaders were very disturbed that Peter and John were teaching the people that  through Jesus there is a resurrection of the dead.

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
How does the 33rd verse describe the apostles?
[A 4:33]	The apostles testified powerfully to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and God's great blessing was upon them all.

Question number 20 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 4.
The council didn't know how to punish the apostles without starting what?
[A 4:21]	The council then threatened them further, but they finally let them go because they didn't know how to punish them without starting a riot. For everyone was praising God

Question number 1 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 21st verse, when did the apostles enter the Temple?
[A 5:21]	So at daybreak the apostles entered the Temple, as they were told, and immediately began teaching. When the high priest and his officials arrived, they convened the high council- the full assembly of the elders of Israel. Then they sent for the apostles to be brought from the jail for trial.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who was respected by, quote, "all the people"?
[A 5:34]	But one member, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, who was an expert in religious law and respected by all the people, stood up and ordered that the men be sent outside the council chamber for a while.

Question number 3 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Ananias and Sapphira."
What did Ananias do after he, quote, "sold some property"?
[A 5:2]	He brought part of the money to the apostles, claiming it was the full amount. With  his wife's consent, he kept the rest.

Question number 4 for 30 points. 3-Part question. 4-Part answer. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 26th verse, who arrested the apostles, how, and why?
[A 5:26]	The captain went with his Temple guards and arrested the apostles, but without  violence, for they were afraid the people would stone them.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Heal Many."
Referring to the believers, what happened despite no one daring to, quote, "join them"?
[A 5:14]	Yet more and more people believed and were brought to the Lord-crowds of both  men and women.

Question number 6 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who raised Jesus from the dead?
[A 5:30]	The God of our ancestors raised Jesus from the dead after you killed him by hanging him on a cross.

Question number 7 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 28th verse, what strict orders had the apostles been given and what had they done instead?
[A 5:28]	"We gave you strict orders never again to teach in this man's name!" he said. "Instead, you have filled all Jerusalem with your teaching about him, and you want  to make us responsible for his death!"

Question number 8 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 5.
Who asked, quote, "Ananias, why have you let Satan fill your heart"? [A 5:3]	Peter

Question number 9 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Leaving the high council, why did the apostles rejoice?
[A 5:41]	The apostles left the high council rejoicing that God had counted them worthy to  suffer disgrace for the name of Jesus.

Question number 10 for 20 points. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 19th verse, what did an angel of the Lord do?
[A 5:19]	But an angel of the Lord came at night, opened the gates of the jail, and brought  them out. Then he told them,

Question number 11 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 5.
Who arrived with, quote, "startling news"?
[A 5:25]	Then someone arrived with startling news: "The men you put in jail are standing in the Temple, teaching the people!"

Question number 12 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 5.
The whole movement came to what?
[A 5:36]	Some time ago there was that fellow Theudas, who pretended to be someone great.
About 400 others joined him, but he was killed, and all his followers went their various ways. The whole movement came to nothing.

Question number 13 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
How does the 34th verse describe Gamaliel?
[A 5:34]	But one member, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, who was an expert in religious law  and respected by all the people, stood up and ordered that the men be sent outside  the council chamber for a while.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Ananias and Sapphira."
When did Ananias die?
[A 5:5]	As soon as Ananias heard these words, he fell to the floor and died. Everyone who heard about it was terrified.

Question number 15 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
After Judas got people to follow him, what happened?
[A 5:37]	After him, at the time of the census, there was Judas of Galilee. He got people to follow him, but he was killed, too, and all his followers were scattered.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Ananias and Sapphira."
With whom did Ananias sell some property?
[A 5:1]	But there was a certain man named Ananias who, with his wife, Sapphira, sold some property.

Question number 17 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who is given by God to, quote, "those who obey him"?
[A 5:32]	We are witnesses of these things and so is the Holy Spirit, who is given by God to those who obey him."

Question number 18 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 14th verse, who were brought where?
[A 5:14]	Yet more and more people believed and were brought to the Lord-crowds of both  men and women.

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the closing verse, the apostles continued to do what?
[A 5:42]	And every day, in the Temple and from house to house, they continued to teach and  preach this message: "Jesus is the Messiah."

Question number 20 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 5.
The possessive word "Peter's" is used to describe what?
[A 5:15]	As a result of the apostles' work, sick people were brought out into the streets on beds and mats so that Peter's shadow might fall across some of them as he went by.

Question number 1 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 5.
How did the apostles leave the, quote, "high council"?
[A 5:41]	The apostles left the high council rejoicing that God had counted them worthy to suffer disgrace for the name of Jesus.

Question number 2 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 5.
Referring to Ananias, after selling property, what was, quote, "yours to give away"?
[A 5:4]	The property was yours to sell or not sell, as you wished. And after selling it, the money was also yours to give away. How could you do a thing like this? You weren't lying to us but to God!"

Question number 3 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
When the leading priests heard the Temple guards' report, what did they do?
[A 5:24]	When the captain of the Temple guard and the leading priests heard this, they were  perplexed, wondering where it would all end.

Question number 4 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Ananias and Sapphira."
Who are just outside the door?
[A 5:9]	And Peter said, "How could the two of you even think of conspiring to test the Spirit of the Lord like this? The young men who buried your husband are just outside the door, and they will carry you out, too."

Question number 5 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 35th verse, to his colleagues, what exclamation did Gamaliel make?
[A 5:35]	"Men of Israel, take care what you are planning to do to these men!

Question number 6 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 5.
Ananias was wrapped in what?
[A 5:6]	Then some young men got up, wrapped him in a sheet, and took him out and buried him.

Question number 7 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
When did the God of our ancestors raise Jesus, quote, "from the dead"?
[A 5:30]	The God of our ancestors raised Jesus from the dead after you killed him by  hanging him on a cross.

Question number 8 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Heal Many."
About Peter's shadow, what did Luke say?
[A 5:15]	As a result of the apostles' work, sick people were brought out into the streets on  beds and mats so that Peter's shadow might fall across some of them as he went by.

Question number 9 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
How did Sapphira reply when Peter asked her, quote, "Was this the price you and your husband received for the land?"
[A 5:8]	Peter asked her, "Was this the price you and your husband received for your land?" "Yes," she replied, "that was the price."

Question number 10 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Gamaliel ordered what?
[A 5:34]	But one member, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, who was an expert in religious law and respected by all the people, stood up and ordered that the men be sent outside  the council chamber for a while.

Question number 11 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
After convening the high council, what did the high priest and his officials do?
[A 5:21]	So at daybreak the apostles entered the Temple, as they were told, and immediately began teaching. When the high priest and his officials arrived, they convened the high council- the full assembly of the elders of Israel. Then they sent for the  apostles to be brought from the jail for trial.

Question number 12 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 34th verse, who was Gamaliel and what did he do?
[A 5:34]	But one member, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, who was an expert in religious law  and respected by all the people, stood up and ordered that the men be sent outside  the council chamber for a while.

Question number 13 for 10 points. Scripture text question. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who replied, quote, "We must obey God rather than any human authority"?
[A 5:29]	But Peter and the apostles replied, "We must obey God rather than any human authority.

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Heal Many."
Crowds brought those possessed by whom?
[A 5:16]	Crowds came from the villages around Jerusalem, bringing their sick and those possessed by evil spirits, and they were all healed.

Question number 15 for 30 points. 2-Part chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Confronting the apostles, what did the high priest exclaim?
[A 5:28]	"We gave you strict orders never again to teach in this man's name!"
[]	"Instead, you have filled all Jerusalem with your teaching about him, and you want to make us responsible for his death!"

Question number 16 for 10 points. Scripture text question. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
As what did God put Jesus in the, quote, "place of honor"?
[A 5:31]	Then God put him in the place of honor at his right hand as Prince and Savior. He did this so the people of Israel would repent of their sins and be forgiven.

Question number 17 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
How does the 25th verse describe someone?
[A 5:25]	Then someone arrived with startling news: "The men you put in jail are standing in  the Temple, teaching the people!"

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 9th verse, who buried whom?
[A 5:9]	And Peter said, "How could the two of you even think of conspiring to test the Spirit of the Lord like this? The young men who buried your husband are just outside the door, and they will carry you out, too."

Question number 19 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
When and where did the apostles continue to preach this message, quote, "Jesus is the Messiah"?
[A 5:42]	And every day, in the Temple and from house to house, they continued to teach and preach this message: "Jesus is the Messiah."

Question number 20 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the opening verse, who sold what?
[A 5:1]	But there was a certain man named Ananias who, with his wife, Sapphira, sold some property.

Question number 1 for 20 points. 3-Part answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Who arrested Stephen?
[A 6:12]	This roused the people, the elders, and the teachers of religious law. So they arrested Stephen and brought him before the high council.

Question number 2 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 6.
According to the 10th verse, with what and with whom did Stephen speak?
[A 6:10]	None of them could stand against the wisdom and the Spirit with which Stephen spoke.

Question number 3 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Everyone in the high council did what and why?
[A 6:15]	At this point everyone in the high council stared at Stephen, because his face  became as bright as an angel's.

Question number 4 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
How does the opening verse describe Stephen?
[A 6:8]	Stephen, a man full of God's grace and power, performed amazing miracles and  signs among the people.

Question number 5 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
Select seven men who are full of whom and what?
[A 6:3]	And so, brothers, select seven men who are well respected and are full of the Spirit and wisdom. We will give them this responsibility.

Question number 6 for 30 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 7 from the 6th chapter.
[A 6:7]	So God's message continued to spread. The number of believers greatly increased in Jerusalem, and many of the Jewish priests were converted, too.

Question number 7 for 20 points. 3-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
Who complained about whom, saying what?
[A 6:1]	But as the believers rapidly multiplied, there were rumblings of discontent. The  Greek-speaking believers complained about the Hebrew-speaking believers, saying that their widows were being discriminated against in the daily distribution of food.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
What did the Twelve say they should do instead of, quote, "running a food program"?
[A 6:2]	So the Twelve called a meeting of all the believers. They said, "We apostles should spend our time teaching the word of God, not running a food program.

Question number 9 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Against what law did lying witnesses claim Stephen spoke?
[A 6:13]	The lying witnesses said, "This man is always speaking against the holy Temple and against the law of Moses.

Question number 10 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
What did the Jews do when they couldn't stand against the, quote, "wisdom and the Spirit with which Stephen spoke"?
[A 6:11]	So they persuaded some men to lie about Stephen, saying, "We heard him  blaspheme Moses, and even God."

Question number 11 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Stephen was full of what?
[A 6:8]	Stephen, a man full of God's grace and power, performed amazing miracles and signs among the people.

Question number 12 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
According to the 2nd verse, what did the Twelve do and say?
[A 6:2]	So the Twelve called a meeting of all the believers. They said, "We apostles should  spend our time teaching the word of God, not running a food program.

Question number 13 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 6.
The hyphenated word "Hebrew-speaking" is used to describe whom?
[A 6:1]	But as the believers rapidly multiplied, there were rumblings of discontent. The Greek-speaking believers complained about the Hebrew-speaking believers, saying that their widows were being discriminated against in the daily distribution of food.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Roused people did what?
[A 6:12]	This roused the people, the elders, and the teachers of religious law. So they arrested  Stephen and brought him before the high council.

Question number 15 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
According to the 9th verse, who started to do what?
[A 6:9]	But one day some men from the Synagogue of Freed Slaves, as it was called, started to debate with him. They were Jews from Cyrene, Alexandria, Cilicia, and the  province of Asia.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
How bright did Stephen's face become?
[A 6:15]	At this point everyone in the high council stared at Stephen, because his face became as bright as an angel's.

Question number 17 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
Respect is mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 6:3]	And so, brothers, select seven men who are well respected and are full of the Spirit and wisdom. We will give them this responsibility.

Question number 18 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
What man was full of both, quote, "faith and the Holy Spirit"? [A 6:5]	Stephen

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
After giving the seven men this responsibility, what could the apostles do?
[A 6:4]	Then we apostles can spend our time in prayer and teaching the word."

Question number 20 for 10 points. Statement and question. 2-Part answer. From Acts chapter 6.
Some men lied about Stephen saying they heard him blaspheme. Who did they claim Stephen blasphemed?
[A 6:11]	So they persuaded some men to lie about Stephen, saying, "We heard him blaspheme Moses, and even God."

Question number 1 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
About whom did the Greek-speaking believers complain?
[A 6:1]	But as the believers rapidly multiplied, there were rumblings of discontent. The Greek-speaking believers complained about the Hebrew-speaking believers, saying that their widows were being discriminated against in the daily distribution of food.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Stephen performed what?
[A 6:8]	Stephen, a man full of God's grace and power, performed amazing miracles and  signs among the people.

Question number 3 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 6, from the 6th chapter.
[A 6:6]	These seven were presented to the apostles, who prayed for them as they laid their hands on them.

Question number 4 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
About the Synagogue of Freed Slaves, what did Luke say?
[A 6:9]	But one day some men from the Synagogue of Freed Slaves, as it was called, started  to debate with him. They were Jews from Cyrene, Alexandria, Cilicia, and the  province of Asia.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
According to the 3rd verse, to brothers, what did the Twelve say?
[A 6:3]	And so, brothers, select seven men who are well respected and are full of the Spirit  and wisdom. We will give them this responsibility.

Question number 6 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 6.
What kind of program is mentioned?
[A 6:2]	So the Twelve called a meeting of all the believers. They said, "We apostles should spend our time teaching the word of God, not running a food program.

Question number 7 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Lying witnesses said who was always speaking against what?
[A 6:13]	The lying witnesses said, "This man is always speaking against the holy Temple and against the law of Moses.

Question number 8 for 30 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 6.
According to the 5th verse, what did everyone do?
[A 6:5]	Everyone liked this idea, and they chose the following: Stephen (a man full of faith  and the Holy Spirit), Philip, Procorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolas of  Antioch (an earlier convert to the Jewish faith).

Question number 9 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Who were the men from the, quote, "Synagogue of Freed Slaves"?
[A 6:9]	But one day some men from the Synagogue of Freed Slaves, as it was called, started to debate with him. They were Jews from Cyrene, Alexandria, Cilicia, and the  province of Asia.

Question number 10 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 6.
Who liked this idea?
[A 6:5]	Everyone liked this idea, and they chose the following: Stephen (a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit), Philip, Procorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolas of Antioch (an earlier convert to the Jewish faith).

Question number 11 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
How does Luke complete the phrase, quote, "Synagogue of"?
[A 6:9]	But one day some men from the Synagogue of Freed Slaves, as it was called, started to debate with him. They were Jews from Cyrene, Alexandria, Cilicia, and the province of Asia.

Question number 12 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
What man was full of both, quote, "God's grace and power"? [A 6:8]	Stephen

Question number 13 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From Acts chapter 6.
According to the 4th verse, in what could the apostles spend time?
[A 6:4]	Then we apostles can spend our time in prayer and teaching the word."

Question number 14 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
About rumblings of discontent, what did Luke say?
[A 6:1]	But as the believers rapidly multiplied, there were rumblings of discontent. The  Greek-speaking believers complained about the Hebrew-speaking believers, saying  that their widows were being discriminated against in the daily distribution of food.

Question number 15 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
What resulted when God's message, quote, "continued to spread"?
[A 6:7]	So God's message continued to spread. The number of believers greatly increased in  Jerusalem, and many of the Jewish priests were converted, too.

Question number 16 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 6.
Select how many men?
[A 6:3]	And so, brothers, select seven men who are well respected and are full of the Spirit and wisdom. We will give them this responsibility.

Question number 17 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
The Jews persuaded whom to do what?
[A 6:11]	So they persuaded some men to lie about Stephen, saying, "We heard him  blaspheme Moses, and even God."

Question number 18 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
At this point, what happened?
[A 6:15]	At this point everyone in the high council stared at Stephen, because his face  became as bright as an angel's.

Question number 19 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
Who laid their hands on the seven?
[A 6:6]	These seven were presented to the apostles, who prayed for them as they laid their hands on them.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
Why were the brothers to select seven men to, quote, "give them this responsibility"?
[A 6:4]	Then we apostles can spend our time in prayer and teaching the word."

Question number 1 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Who came to the, quote, "throne of Egypt"?
[A 7:18]	But then a new king came to the throne of Egypt who knew nothing about Joseph.

Question number 2 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 7.
Joseph was sold to be what, where?
[A 7:9]	"These patriarchs were jealous of their brother Joseph, and they sold him to be a  slave in Egypt. But God was with him

Question number 3 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 2nd verse, our glorious God did what?
[A 7:2]	This was Stephen's reply: "Brothers and fathers, listen to me. Our glorious God appeared to our ancestor Abraham in Mesopotamia before he settled in Haran.

Question number 4 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Stephen gazed where and saw what?
[A 7:55]	But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed steadily into heaven and saw the glory of  God, and he saw Jesus standing in the place of honor at God's right hand.

Question number 5 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
Until when did Abraham live in Haran?
[A 7:4]	So Abraham left the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran until his father died.
Then God brought him here to the land where you now live.

Question number 6 for 10 points. 2-Part scripture text question. From Acts chapter 7.
Who asked whom, quote, "Are these accusations true?"
[A 7:1]	Then the high priest asked Stephen, "Are these accusations true?"

Question number 7 for 30 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 5th verse, God did what?
[A 7:5]	"But God gave him no inheritance here, not even one square foot of land. God did  promise, however, that eventually the whole land would belong to Abraham and his  descendants- even though he had no children yet.

Question number 8 for 10 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
In Mesopotamia, who appeared to whom?
[A 7:2]	This was Stephen's reply: "Brothers and fathers, listen to me. Our glorious God appeared to our ancestor Abraham in Mesopotamia before he settled in Haran.

Question number 9 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
What did Moses do when he heard the question, quote, "Are you going to kill me as you killed that Egyptian yesterday"?
[A 7:29]	When Moses heard that, he fled the country and lived as a foreigner in the land of  Midian. There his two sons were born.

Question number 10 for 20 points. Quotation question. From Acts.
Quote verse 31 from the 7th chapter.
[A 7:31]	When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight. As he went to take a closer look, the voice of the LORD called out to him,

Question number 11 for 30 points. Scripture text essence question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Give, in essence, the verse that mentions the, quote, "shrine of Molech."
[A 7:43]	No, you carried your pagan gods-the shrine of Molech, the star of your god Rephan, and the images you made to worship them. So I will send you into exile as far away as Babylon.'

Question number 12 for 10 points. 3-Part question. From Acts chapter 7.
Jewish leaders shook what at whom, how?
[A 7:54]	The Jewish leaders were infuriated by Stephen's accusation, and they shook their  fists at him in rage.

Question number 13 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
Parents were forced to abandon whom?
[A 7:19]	This king exploited our people and oppressed them, forcing parents to abandon their  newborn babies so they would die.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 7.
What did the Jewish leaders do when Stephen told them, quote, "Look, I see the heavens opened and the Son of Man standing in the place of honor at God's right hand!"?
[A 7:57]	Then they put their hands over their ears and began shouting. They rushed at him

Question number 15 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
About persecution, what did Stephen say?
[A 7:52]	Name one prophet your ancestors didn't persecute! They even killed the ones who  predicted the coming of the Righteous One-the Messiah whom you betrayed and  murdered.

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 23rd verse, when Moses was forty years old, what did he do?
[A 7:23]	"One day when Moses was forty years old, he decided to visit his relatives, the  people of Israel.

Question number 17 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Jacob died where?
[A 7:15]	Egypt

Question number 18 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
What words caused Moses to shake with terror?
[A 7:32]	'I am the God of your ancestors- the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.'

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
How does the 39th verse describe ancestors?
[A 7:39]	"But our ancestors refused to listen to Moses. They rejected him and wanted to  return to Egypt.

Question number 20 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
In what book is it written, quote, "Was it to me you were bringing sacrifices and offerings during those forty years in the wilderness, Israel"?
[A 7:42]	Then God turned away from them and abandoned them to serve the stars of heaven as their gods! In the book of the prophets it is written, 'Was it to me you were bringing sacrifices and offerings during those forty years in the wilderness, Israel?

Question number 1 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
How did Stephen gaze into heaven?
[A 7:55]	But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed steadily into heaven and saw the glory of God, and he saw Jesus standing in the place of honor at God's right hand.

Question number 2 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 7.
Who gave Abraham no inheritance here?
[A 7:5]	"But God gave him no inheritance here, not even one square foot of land. God did promise, however, that eventually the whole land would belong to Abraham and his descendants- even though he had no children yet.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 49 from the 7th chapter.
[A 7:49]	'Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. Could you build me a temple as good as that?' asks the LORD. 'Could you build me such a resting place?

Question number 4 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Solomon actually did what?
[A 7:47]	But it was Solomon who actually built it.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 33rd verse, the Lord said what?
[A 7:33]	"Then the LORD said to him, 'Take off your sandals, for you are standing on holy  ground.

Question number 6 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
Seeing two men of Israel fighting, what did Moses do and say?
[A 7:26]	"The next day he visited them again and saw two men of Israel fighting. He tried to  be a peacemaker. 'Men,' he said, 'you are brothers. Why are you fighting each  other?'

Question number 7 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Who appointed Joseph governor over, quote, "all of Egypt"?
[A 7:10]	and rescued him from all his troubles. And God gave him favor before Pharaoh, king of Egypt. God also gave Joseph unusual wisdom, so that Pharaoh appointed him governor over all of Egypt and put him in charge of the palace.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Sandals are mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 7:33]	"Then the LORD said to him, 'Take off your sandals, for you are standing on holy ground.

Question number 9 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 52nd verse, ancestors did what?
[A 7:52]	Name one prophet your ancestors didn't persecute! They even killed the ones who  predicted the coming of the Righteous One-the Messiah whom you betrayed and  murdered.

Question number 10 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Where did God send ancestors into exile?
[A 7:43]	No, you carried your pagan gods-the shrine of Molech, the star of your god Rephan, and the images you made to worship them. So I will send you into exile as  far away as Babylon.'

Question number 11 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
How does the 20th verse describe Moses?
[A 7:20]	"At that time Moses was born-a beautiful child in God's eyes. His parents cared  for him at home for three months.

Question number 12 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
How was the Tabernacle constructed?
[A 7:44]	"Our ancestors carried the Tabernacle with them through the wilderness. It was constructed according to the plan God had shown to Moses.

Question number 13 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 7.
Who were forced to abandon their, quote, "newborn babies"?
[A 7:19]	This king exploited our people and oppressed them, forcing parents to abandon their newborn babies so they would die.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
How does the 44th verse describe the Tabernacle?
[A 7:44]	"Our ancestors carried the Tabernacle with them through the wilderness. It was  constructed according to the plan God had shown to Moses.

Question number 15 for 30 points. 3-Part question. 4-Part answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 55th verse, who gazed where and saw what?
[A 7:55]	But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed steadily into heaven and saw the glory of  God, and he saw Jesus standing in the place of honor at God's right hand.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
How did Moses avenge the mistreated Israelite?
[A 7:24]	He saw an Egyptian mistreating an Israelite. So Moses came to the man's defense and avenged him, killing the Egyptian.

Question number 17 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Referring to Moses, what happened when his parents, quote, "had to abandon him"?
[A 7:21]	When they had to abandon him, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him and raised him as  her own son.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
As Jewish leaders stoned him, what did Stephen do?
[A 7:59]	As they stoned him, Stephen prayed, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit."

Question number 19 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
Where were Moses' two sons born?
[A 7:29]	When Moses heard that, he fled the country and lived as a foreigner in the land of  Midian. There his two sons were born.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
After ancestors celebrated over an idol, what did God do?
[A 7:42]	Then God turned away from them and abandoned them to serve the stars of heaven  as their gods! In the book of the prophets it is written, 'Was it to me you were bringing sacrifices and offerings during those forty years in the wilderness, Israel?

Question number 1 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Persecution Scatters the Believers."
With what did devout men bury Stephen?
[A 8:2]	(Some devout men came and buried Stephen with great mourning.)

Question number 2 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Referring to the new believers in Samaria, why had the Holy Spirit not yet, quote, "come upon any of them"?
[A 8:16]	The Holy Spirit had not yet come upon any of them, for they had only been baptized  in the name of the Lord Jesus.

Question number 3 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Beginning with what did Philip tell the eunuch the Good News?
[A 8:35]	So beginning with this same Scripture, Philip told him the Good News about Jesus.

Question number 4 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the 31st verse, the eunuch replied what and urged what?
[A 8:31]	The man replied, "How can I, unless someone instructs me?" And he urged Philip to  come up into the carriage and sit with him.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
How does the opening verse describe Saul?
[A 8:1]	Saul was one of the witnesses, and he agreed completely with the killing of  Stephen. A great wave of persecution began that day, sweeping over the church in Jerusalem; and all the believers except the apostles were scattered through the regions of Judea and Samaria.

Question number 6 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
Going from house to house, why did Saul drag out both, quote, "men and women"?
[A 8:3]	But Saul was going everywhere to destroy the church. He went from house to house, dragging out both men and women to throw them into prison.

Question number 7 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
When the eunuch ordered the carriage to stop, what happened?
[A 8:38] He ordered the carriage to stop, and they went down into the water, and Philip baptized  him.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
To Philip, what did an angel of the Lord say?
[A 8:26]	As for Philip, an angel of the Lord said to him, "Go south down the desert road that  runs from Jerusalem to Gaza."

Question number 9 for 30 points. Statement and essence question. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
A lamb is mentioned in one verse. Give, in essence, this verse.
[A 8:32]	The passage of Scripture he had been reading was this: "He was led like a sheep to the slaughter. And as a lamb is silent before the shearers, he did not open his mouth.

Question number 10 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
When Simon followed Philip wherever he went, what happened?
[A 8:13]	Then Simon himself believed and was baptized. He began following Philip wherever he went, and he was amazed by the signs and great miracles Philip  performed.

Question number 11 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
What are led to the slaughter?
[A 8:32]	The passage of Scripture he had been reading was this: "He was led like a sheep to the slaughter. And as a lamb is silent before the shearers, he did not open his mouth.

Question number 12 for 20 points. Quotation question. From Acts.
Quote verse 33 from the 8th chapter.
[A 8:33]	He was humiliated and received no justice. Who can speak of his descendants? For his life was taken from the earth."

Question number 13 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Who accepted God's message?
[A 8:14]	When the apostles in Jerusalem heard that the people of Samaria had accepted God's message, they sent Peter and John there.

Question number 14 for 30 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Referring to Samaria, why was there, quote, "great joy in that city"?
[A 8:7]	Many evil spirits were cast out, screaming as they left their victims. And many who  had been paralyzed or lame were healed.

Question number 15 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Beside what did the Holy Spirit tell Philip to walk?
[A 8:29]	The Holy Spirit said to Philip, "Go over and walk along beside the carriage."

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Starting out, who did Philip meet?
[A 8:27]	So he started out, and he met the treasurer of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority  under the Kandake, the queen of Ethiopia. The eunuch had gone to Jerusalem to worship,

Question number 17 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
When they were cast out, what did many evil spirits do?
[A 8:7]	Many evil spirits were cast out, screaming as they left their victims. And many who had been paralyzed or lame were healed.

Question number 18 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the 21st verse, Simon could not have what?
[A 8:21]	You can have no part in this, for your heart is not right with God.

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Running over, Philip heard what?
[A 8:30]	Philip ran over and heard the man reading from the prophet Isaiah. Philip asked, "Do you understand what you are reading?"

Question number 20 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Where did Philip find himself, quote, "farther north"?
[A 8:40]	Meanwhile, Philip found himself farther north at the town of Azotus. He preached the Good News there and in every town along the way until he came to Caesarea.

Question number 1 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
How does the 38th verse describe the eunuch?
[A 8:38]	He ordered the carriage to stop, and they went down into the water, and Philip  baptized him.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Quotation question. From Acts chapter 8.
Quote the 17th verse.
[A 8:17]	Then Peter and John laid their hands upon these believers, and they received the Holy Spirit.

Question number 3 for 20 points. 2-Part scripture text question. 3-Part answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Who stopped where to, quote, "preach the Good News"?
[A 8:25]	After testifying and preaching the word of the Lord in Samaria, Peter and John returned to Jerusalem. And they stopped in many Samaritan villages along the way to preach the Good News.

Question number 4 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
How does the 13th verse describe Simon?
[A 8:13]	Then Simon himself believed and was baptized. He began following Philip  wherever he went, and he was amazed by the signs and great miracles Philip  performed.

Question number 5 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 8.
How does Luke complete the phrase, quote, "Spirit of"?
[A 8:39]	When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away.
The eunuch never saw him again but went on his way rejoicing.

Question number 6 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
About sheep, what did Isaiah say?
[A 8:32]	The passage of Scripture he had been reading was this: "He was led like a sheep to  the slaughter. And as a lamb is silent before the shearers, he did not open his mouth.

Question number 7 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Returning from Jerusalem, what was the eunuch doing?
[A 8:28]	and he was now returning. Seated in his carriage, he was reading aloud from the  book of the prophet Isaiah.

Question number 8 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Philip told the people of Samaria about whom?
[A 8:5]	Philip, for example, went to the city of Samaria and told the people there about the  Messiah.

Question number 9 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
In Samaria, Peter and John preached what?
[A 8:25]	After testifying and preaching the word of the Lord in Samaria, Peter and John returned to Jerusalem. And they stopped in many Samaritan villages along the way to preach the Good News.

Question number 10 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the 3rd verse, Saul was doing what?
[A 8:3]	But Saul was going everywhere to destroy the church. He went from house to  house, dragging out both men and women to throw them into prison.

Question number 11 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
How did Peter reply when Simon asked to, quote, "Let me have this power, too"?
[A 8:20]	"May your money be destroyed with you for thinking God's gift can be bought!

Question number 12 for 20 points. 2-Part question. 3-Part chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 8.
Verse 30 names which individuals and contains which question? [A 8:30]	Philip
[]	Isaiah
[]	"Do you understand what you are reading?"

Question number 13 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Who was given when the apostles, quote, "laid their hands on people"?
[A 8:18]	When Simon saw that the Spirit was given when the apostles laid their hands on people, he offered them money to buy this power.

Question number 14 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 8.
The word "bitter" is used to describe what?
[A 8:23]	for I can see that you are full of bitter jealousy and are held captive by sin."

Question number 15 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
As a result of what were many men and women baptized?
[A 8:12]	But now the people believed Philip's message of Good News concerning the  Kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ. As a result, many men and women were baptized.

Question number 16 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Why had the eunuch gone to Jerusalem?
[A 8:27]	So he started out, and he met the treasurer of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under the Kandake, the queen of Ethiopia. The eunuch had gone to Jerusalem to  worship,

Question number 17 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Why did Simon ask Peter to, quote, "Pray to the Lord for me"?
[A 8:24]	"Pray to the Lord for me," Simon exclaimed, "that these terrible things you've said  won't happen to me!"

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the 17th verse, Peter and John laid what upon whom?
[A 8:17]	Then Peter and John laid their hands upon these believers, and they received the Holy Spirit.

Question number 19 for 10 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
The man urged Philip to come up where and sit where?
[A 8:31]	The man replied, "How can I, unless someone instructs me?" And he urged Philip to come up into the carriage and sit with him.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
How did Philip respond to the eunuch's question, quote, "Tell me, was the prophet talking about himself or someone else?"
[A 8:35]	So beginning with this same Scripture, Philip told him the Good News about Jesus.

Question number 1 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
Who lived in the fear of the Lord?
[A 9:31]	The church then had peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and it became stronger as the believers lived in the fear of the Lord. And with the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, it also grew in numbers.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
In letters addressed to the synagogues in Damascus, what did Saul ask for?
[A 9:2]	He requested letters addressed to the synagogues in Damascus, asking for their  cooperation in the arrest of any followers of the Way he found there. He wanted to bring them- both men and women- back to Jerusalem in chains.

Question number 3 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
The believers had heard what and did what as a result?
[A 9:38]	But the believers had heard that Peter was nearby at Lydda, so they sent two men to  beg him, "Please come as soon as possible!"

Question number 4 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
Saul tried to do what, when?
[A 9:26]	When Saul arrived in Jerusalem, he tried to meet with the believers, but they were all afraid of him. They did not believe he had truly become a believer!

Question number 5 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
Saul requested letters addressed to whom?
[A 9:2]	He requested letters addressed to the synagogues in Damascus, asking for their cooperation in the arrest of any followers of the Way he found there. He wanted to bring them- both men and women- back to Jerusalem in chains.

Question number 6 for 30 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 17 from the 9th chapter.
[A 9:17]	So Ananias went and found Saul. He laid his hands on him and said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road, has sent me so that you might regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."

Question number 7 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
What said, quote, "Saul! Saul! Why are you persecuting me?"
[A 9:4]	He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, "Saul! Saul! Why are you persecuting me?"

Question number 8 for 20 points. Scripture text quotation question. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Quote the verse in which the voice told Saul to, quote, "get up."
[A 9:6]	Now get up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do."

Question number 9 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
After helping Tabitha up, what did Peter do?
[A 9:41]	He gave her his hand and helped her up. Then he called in the widows and all the  believers, and he presented her to them alive.

Question number 10 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 9.
The possessive word "someone's" is used to describe what?
[A 9:7]	The men with Saul stood speechless, for they heard the sound of someone's voice but saw no one!

Question number 11 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
How does the 31st verse describe the church?
[A 9:31]	The church then had peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and it became  stronger as the believers lived in the fear of the Lord. And with the encouragement  of the Holy Spirit, it also grew in numbers.

Question number 12 for 20 points. 3-Part question. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
Immediately, Saul preached about whom, where, saying what?
[A 9:20]	And immediately he began preaching about Jesus in the synagogues, saying, "He is  indeed the Son of God!"

Question number 13 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
Who begged Peter, quote, "Please come as soon as possible!"?
[A 9:38]	But the believers had heard that Peter was nearby at Lydda, so they sent two men to beg him, "Please come as soon as possible!"

Question number 14 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
The whole population of Lydda and Sharon turned to whom?
[A 9:35]	Then the whole population of Lydda and Sharon saw Aeneas walking around, and they turned to the Lord.

Question number 15 for 30 points. 2-Part question. 4-Part answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
Barnabas brought Saul to whom and told them what?
[A 9:27]	Then Barnabas brought him to the apostles and told them how Saul had seen the  Lord on the way to Damascus and how the Lord had spoken to Saul. He also told them that Saul had preached boldly in the name of Jesus in Damascus.

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
How does the 18th verse describe Saul?
[A 9:18]	Instantly something like scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he regained his sight. Then  he got up and was baptized.

Question number 17 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
What was washed for what?
[A 9:37]	About this time she became ill and died. Her body was washed for burial and laid in an upstairs room.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Referring to Saul, what did the Lord tell Ananias he would, quote, "show him"?
[A 9:16]	And I will show him how much he must suffer for my name's sake."

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
According to the 6th verse, what did the voice say?
[A 9:6]	Now get up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do."

Question number 20 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
When did some believers lower Paul in a, quote, "large basket"?
[A 9:25]	So during the night, some of the other believers lowered him in a large basket through an opening in the city wall.

Question number 1 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 9.
The word "terrible" is used to describe what?
[A 9:13]	"But Lord," exclaimed Ananias, "I've heard many people talk about the terrible things this man has done to the believers in Jerusalem!

Question number 2 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
Why did some Jews plot together?
[A 9:23]	After a while some of the Jews plotted together to kill him.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Scripture text essence question. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Give, in essence, the verse that describes Saul as a, quote, "man from Tarsus."
[A 9:11]	The Lord said, "Go over to Straight Street, to the house of Judas. When you get there, ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul. He is praying to me right now.

Question number 4 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
The leading priests had done what?
[A 9:14]	And he is authorized by the leading priests to arrest everyone who calls upon your  name."

Question number 5 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
According to the 29th verse, believers heard about what?
[A 9:29]	He debated with some Greek-speaking Jews, but they tried to murder him.

Question number 6 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
When did the church become stronger?
[A 9:31]	The church then had peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and it became stronger as the believers lived in the fear of the Lord. And with the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, it also grew in numbers.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
For how long did Saul stay with the, quote, "believers in Damascus"?
[A 9:19]	Afterward he ate some food and regained his strength. Saul stayed with the believers in Damascus for a few days.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
So they could murder Saul, what were some of the Jews doing?
[A 9:24]	They were watching for him day and night at the city gate so they could murder him, but Saul was told about their plot.

Question number 9 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
In the 17th verse, how does Ananias address Saul?
[A 9:17]	So Ananias went and found Saul. He laid his hands on him and said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road, has sent me so that you might regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."

Question number 10 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
How does the 36th verse describe Tabitha?
[A 9:36]	There was a believer in Joppa named Tabitha (which in Greek is Dorcas). She was  always doing kind things for others and helping the poor.

Question number 11 for 10 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
The Lord told Ananias to go over to where?
[A 9:11]	The Lord said, "Go over to Straight Street, to the house of Judas. When you get there, ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul. He is praying to me right now.

Question number 12 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 9.
What kind of instrument was Saul?
[A 9:15]	But the Lord said, "Go, for Saul is my chosen instrument to take my message to the Gentiles and to kings, as well as to the people of Israel.

Question number 13 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 9.
According to the 17th verse, what did Ananias do and say?
[A 9:17]	So Ananias went and found Saul. He laid his hands on him and said, "Brother Saul,  the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road, has sent me so that you might  regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."

Question number 14 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
What fell from Saul's eyes and what resulted?
[A 9:18]	Instantly something like scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he regained his sight. Then he got up and was baptized.

Question number 15 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
When the believers had heard that Peter was nearby at Lydda, what did they do and say?
[A 9:38]	But the believers had heard that Peter was nearby at Lydda, so they sent two men to  beg him, "Please come as soon as possible!"

Question number 16 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Saul was authorized by whom to arrest, quote, "everyone who calls upon your name"?
[A 9:14]	And he is authorized by the leading priests to arrest everyone who calls upon your name."

Question number 17 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Scales are mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 9:18]	Instantly something like scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he regained his sight. Then he got up and was baptized.

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From Acts chapter 9.
According to the 9th verse, Saul did not do what?
[A 9:9]	He remained there blind for three days and did not eat or drink.

Question number 19 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
Peter traveled where and visited whom?
[A 9:32]	Meanwhile, Peter traveled from place to place, and he came down to visit the  believers in the town of Lydda.

Question number 20 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
In the synagogues, what did Paul do and say?
[A 9:20]	And immediately he began preaching about Jesus in the synagogues, saying, "He is  indeed the Son of God!"

Question number 1 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
According to the 38th verse, you know what?
[A 10:38]	And you know that God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with  power. Then Jesus went around doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.

Question number 2 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
What kind of servants are mentioned?
[A 10:7]	As soon as the angel was gone, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a devout soldier, one of his personal attendants.

Question number 3 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
The word "clean" appears in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 10:15]	But the voice spoke again: "Do not call something unclean if God has made it clean."

Question number 4 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give 5 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
What did the Holy Spirit tell Peter to do and why?
[A 10:20]	Get up, go downstairs, and go with them without hesitation. Don't worry, for I have  sent them."

Question number 5 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
What did the angel exclaim in reply to Cornelius' question, quote, "What is it, sir?"
[A 10:4]	Your prayers and gifts to the poor have been received by God as an offering!

Question number 6 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
According to the 23rd verse, the next day, what happened?
[A 10:23]	So Peter invited the men to stay for the night. The next day he went with them,  accompanied by some of the brothers from Joppa.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Peter fell into what while a, quote, "meal was being prepared"?
[A 10:10]	and he was hungry. But while a meal was being prepared, he fell into a trance.

Question number 8 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
God accepts whom, where?
[A 10:35]	In every nation he accepts those who fear him and do what is right.

Question number 9 for 30 points. Essence completion question. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Finish, in essence, this verse, quote, "Cornelius replied, "Four days ago... "
[A 10:30]  Cornelius replied, "Four days ago I was praying in my house about this same time, three o'clock in the afternoon. Suddenly, a man in dazzling clothes was standing in front of me.

Question number 10 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Who declared, quote, "No, Lord"? [A 10:14]	Peter

Question number 11 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
How does the opening verse describe Cornelius?
[A 10:1]	In Caesarea there lived a Roman army officer named Cornelius, who was a captain  of the Italian Regiment.

Question number 12 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
Testifying about Jesus, prophets said what?
[A 10:43]	He is the one all the prophets testified about, saying that everyone who believes in  him will have their sins forgiven through his name."

Question number 13 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
According to the 22nd verse, what did the three men say?
[A 10:22]	They said, "We were sent by Cornelius, a Roman officer. He is a devout and God- fearing man, well respected by all the Jews. A holy angel instructed him to summon  you to his house so that he can hear your message."

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Who instructed Cornelius to summon Peter?
[A 10:22]	They said, "We were sent by Cornelius, a Roman officer. He is a devout and God- fearing man, well respected by all the Jews. A holy angel instructed him to summon you to his house so that he can hear your message."

Question number 15 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
At what time had Cornelius been praying?
[A 10:30]  Cornelius replied, "Four days ago I was praying in my house about this same time, three o'clock in the afternoon. Suddenly, a man in dazzling clothes was standing in front of me.

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
Why could no one object to Gentiles being baptized?
[A 10:47]	"Can anyone object to their being baptized, now that they have received the Holy  Spirit just as we did?"

Question number 17 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 10.
Which Roman army officer is named? [A 10:1]	Cornelius

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
As what had God shown Peter he should no longer think of anyone?
[A 10:28]	Peter told them, "You know it is against our laws for a Jewish man to enter a Gentile home like this or to associate with you. But God has shown me that I should no longer think of anyone as impure or unclean.

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
While Cornelius was praying, suddenly, what happened?
[A 10:30]   Cornelius replied, "Four days ago I was praying in my house about this same time, three o'clock in the afternoon. Suddenly, a man in dazzling clothes was standing in  front of me.

Question number 20 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Peter was accompanied by whom?
[A 10:23]	So Peter invited the men to stay for the night. The next day he went with them, accompanied by some of the brothers from Joppa.

Question number 1 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
The Jewish believers heard the Gentiles speaking in what?
[A 10:46]	For they heard them speaking in other tongues and praising God. Then Peter asked,

Question number 2 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
Who was a captain of the, quote, "Italian Regiment"?
[A 10:1]	In Caesarea there lived a Roman army officer named Cornelius, who was a captain of the Italian Regiment.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Scripture text essence question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
Give, in essence, the verse that says Jesus rose, quote, "from the dead."
[A 10:41]	not to the general public, but to us whom God had chosen in advance to be his witnesses. We were those who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.

Question number 4 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
Why did Jesus heal all who were, quote, "oppressed by the devil?
[A 10:38]	And you know that God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. Then Jesus went around doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
The phrase "judge of all" appears in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 10:42]	And he ordered us to preach everywhere and to testify that Jesus is the one appointed by God to be the judge of all- the living and the dead.

Question number 6 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
How does the 22nd verse describe Cornelius?
[A 10:22]	They said, "We were sent by Cornelius, a Roman officer. He is a devout and God- fearing man, well respected by all the Jews. A holy angel instructed him to summon  you to his house so that he can hear your message."

Question number 7 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Cornelius was well respected by whom?
[A 10:22]	They said, "We were sent by Cornelius, a Roman officer. He is a devout and God- fearing man, well respected by all the Jews. A holy angel instructed him to summon you to his house so that he can hear your message."

Question number 8 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
When did Cornelius have a vision and what did he see?
[A 10:3]	One afternoon about three o'clock, he had a vision in which he saw an angel of God  coming toward him. "Cornelius!" the angel said.

Question number 9 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
According to the 28th verse, what did Peter say?
[A 10:28]	Peter told them, "You know it is against our laws for a Jewish man to enter a  Gentile home like this or to associate with you. But God has shown me that I should  no longer think of anyone as impure or unclean.

Question number 10 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
When did Peter declare, quote, "No, Lord"?
[A 10:13]	Then a voice said to him, "Get up, Peter; kill and eat them."

Question number 11 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
By whom had Cornelius' gifts to the poor been noticed?
[A 10:31]	He told me, 'Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your gifts to the poor have been noticed by God!

Question number 12 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
Who will have sins forgiven, how?
[A 10:43]	He is the one all the prophets testified about, saying that everyone who believes in  him will have their sins forgiven through his name."

Question number 13 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
How often did Cornelius pray to God?
[A 10:2]	He was a devout, God-fearing man, as was everyone in his household. He gave generously to the poor and prayed regularly to God.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
What is against Jewish laws?
[A 10:28]	Peter told them, "You know it is against our laws for a Jewish man to enter a  Gentile home like this or to associate with you. But God has shown me that I should no longer think of anyone as impure or unclean.

Question number 15 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
With whom and through whom is there peace?
[A 10:36]	This is the message of Good News for the people of Israel- that there is peace with God through Jesus Christ, who is Lord of all.

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Which "do not" command is found?
[A 10:15]	But the voice spoke again: "Do not call something unclean if God has made it  clean."

Question number 17 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 10.
In the 14th verse, how does Peter address the voice?
[A 10:14]	"No, Lord," Peter declared. "I have never eaten anything that our Jewish laws have declared impure and unclean."

Question number 18 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
How does the 2nd verse describe Cornelius?
[A 10:2]	He was a devout, God-fearing man, as was everyone in his household. He gave  generously to the poor and prayed regularly to God.

Question number 19 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
Who are witnesses of all Jesus did, quote, "throughout Judea and in Jerusalem"?
[A 10:39]	"And we apostles are witnesses of all he did throughout Judea and in Jerusalem.
They put him to death by hanging him on a cross,

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
Who did God choose in advance to be witnesses?
[A 10:41]	not to the general public, but to us whom God had chosen in advance to be his witnesses. We were those who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.

Question number 1 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 2.
A footstool goes under what?
[A 2:35]	until I humble your enemies, making them a footstool under your feet."'

Question number 2 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
Eagerly, who looked at Peter and John?
[A 3:5]	The lame man looked at them eagerly, expecting some money.

Question number 3 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
What name was given to the place of Judas' death?
[A 1:19]	The news of his death spread to all the people of Jerusalem, and they gave the place the Aramaic name Akeldama, which means "Field of Blood.")

Question number 4 for 30 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 8 from the opening chapter.
[A 1:8]	But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me everywhere- in Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth."

Question number 5 for 20 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
What is much too early for what?
[A 2:15]	These people are not drunk, as some of you are assuming. Nine o'clock in the  morning is much too early for that.

Question number 6 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 14th verse, where was the man standing?
[A 4:14]	But since they could see the man who had been healed standing right there among  them, there was nothing the council could say.

Question number 7 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
What had Israel done to this, quote, "same Jesus"?
[A 3:13]	For it is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob-the God of all our ancestors- who has brought glory to his servant Jesus by doing this. This is the same Jesus whom you handed over and rejected before Pilate, despite Pilate's decision to  release him.

Question number 8 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
How does the 22nd verse describe God?
[A 2:22]	"People of Israel, listen! God publicly endorsed Jesus the Nazarene by doing  powerful miracles, wonders, and signs through him, as you well know.

Question number 9 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 2nd verse, what filled what?
[A 2:2]	Suddenly, there was a sound from heaven like the roaring of a mighty windstorm, and it filled the house where they were sitting.

Question number 10 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
Matthias became what with whom?
[A 1:26]	Then they cast lots, and Matthias was selected to become an apostle with the other  eleven.

Question number 11 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
Who met in Jerusalem the, quote, "next day"?
[A 4:5]	The next day the council of all the rulers and elders and teachers of religious law met in Jerusalem.

Question number 12 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 2.
Verse 7 names which geographical location? [A 2:7]	Galilee

Question number 13 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 16th verse, what did the council say?
[A 4:16]	"What should we do with these men?" they asked each other. "We can't deny that  they have performed a miraculous sign, and everybody in Jerusalem knows about it.

Question number 14 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
Who are included in what?
[A 3:25]	You are the children of those prophets, and you are included in the covenant God  promised to your ancestors. For God said to Abraham, 'Through your descendants all the families on earth will be blessed.'

Question number 15 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Promise of the Holy Spirit."
Where did Luke tell Theophilus about, quote, "everything Jesus began to do and teach"?
[A 1:1]	In my first book I told you, Theophilus, about everything Jesus began to do and teach

Question number 16 for 20 points. 3-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
The sun will do what and the moon will do what, when?
[A 2:20]	The sun will become dark, and the moon will turn blood red before that great and  glorious day of the LORD arrives.

Question number 17 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
Barnabas means what?
[A 4:36]	For instance, there was Joseph, the one the apostles nicknamed Barnabas (which means "Son of Encouragement"). He was from the tribe of Levi and came from the island of Cyprus.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From Acts chapter 1.
The book of Psalms is mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 1:20]	Peter continued, "This was written in the book of Psalms, where it says, 'Let his home become desolate, with no one living in it.' It also says, 'Let someone else take his position.'

Question number 19 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
God showed David what?
[A 2:28]	You have shown me the way of life, and you will fill me with the joy of your presence.'

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
The members of the council saw what?
[A 4:13]	The members of the council were amazed when they saw the boldness of Peter and  John, for they could see that they were ordinary men with no special training in the  Scriptures. They also recognized them as men who had been with Jesus.

Question number 1 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
Through whom will all families on earth be blessed?
[A 3:25]	You are the children of those prophets, and you are included in the covenant God promised to your ancestors. For God said to Abraham, 'Through your descendants all the families on earth will be blessed.'

Question number 2 for 20 points. Scripture text question. 3-Part answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
Who confronted Peter and John while they were, quote, "speaking to the people"?
[A 4:1]	While Peter and John were speaking to the people, they were confronted by the  priests, the captain of the Temple guard, and some of the Sadducees.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Essence completion question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Finish, in essence, this verse quote, "For David himself..."
[A 2:34]	For David himself never ascended into heaven, yet he said, 'The LORD said to my Lord, "Sit in the place of honor at my right hand

Question number 4 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 8th verse, in what did Jews hear the believers speaking?
[A 2:8]	and yet we hear them speaking in our own native languages!

Question number 5 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Promise of the Holy Spirit."
Until when did Jesus tell the apostles not to, quote, "leave Jerusalem"?
[A 1:4]	Once when he was eating with them, he commanded them, "Do not leave Jerusalem until the Father sends you the gift he promised, as I told you before.

Question number 6 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
How does the 25th verse describe the crowd?
[A 3:25]	You are the children of those prophets, and you are included in the covenant God  promised to your ancestors. For God said to Abraham, 'Through your descendants  all the families on earth will be blessed.'

Question number 7 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Peter witnessed what?
[A 2:32]	"God raised Jesus from the dead, and we are all witnesses of this.

Question number 8 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 4.
Which chamber is mentioned?
[A 4:15]	So they ordered Peter and John out of the council chamber and conferred among themselves.

Question number 9 for 20 points. 2-Part question. 3-Part answer. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 46th verse, the believers shared what with what?
[A 2:46]	They worshiped together at the Temple each day, met in homes for the Lord's Supper, and shared their meals with great joy and generosity-

Question number 10 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
Gold is mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 3:6]	But Peter said, "I don't have any silver or gold for you. But I'll give you what I have. In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, get up and walk!"

Question number 11 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
When the apostles arrived, what happened?
[A 1:13]	When they arrived, they went to the upstairs room of the house where they were  staying. Here are the names of those who were present: Peter, John, James, Andrew,  Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James (son of Alphaeus), Simon (the  zealot), and Judas (son of James).

Question number 12 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
Who witnessed Jesus' resurrection?
[A 1:22]	from the time he was baptized by John until the day he was taken from us. Whoever  is chosen will join us as a witness of Jesus' resurrection."

Question number 13 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 4.
Powerfully, who testified?
[A 4:33]	The apostles testified powerfully to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and God's great blessing was upon them all.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
According to the 6th verse, when the apostles were with Jesus, what did they do?
[A 1:6]	So when the apostles were with Jesus, they kept asking him, "Lord, has the time  come for you to free Israel and restore our kingdom?"

Question number 15 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Share Their Possessions."
After selling a field he owned, what did Joseph do?
[A 4:37]	He sold a field he owned and brought the money to the apostles.

Question number 16 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 2.
What rests in what?
[A 2:26]	No wonder my heart is glad, and my tongue shouts his praises! My body rests in hope.

Question number 17 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 3.
Who fulfilled what the prophets foretold, quote, "about the Messiah"?
[A 3:18]	But God was fulfilling what all the prophets had foretold about the Messiah- that he must suffer these things.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
According to the 15th verse, during this time, what happened?
[A 1:15]	During this time, when about 120 believers were together in one place, Peter stood  up and addressed them.

Question number 19 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
God anointed whom?
[A 4:27]	"In fact, this has happened here in this very city! For Herod Antipas, Pontius Pilate the governor, the Gentiles, and the people of Israel were all united against Jesus,  your holy servant, whom you anointed.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
How does the 8th verse describe Peter?
[A 4:8]	Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers and elders of our  people,

Question number 1 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
With what question did Peter and John reply when commanded never to, quote, "speak or teach in the name of Jesus"?
[A 4:19]	"Do you think God wants us to obey you rather than him?

Question number 2 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Form a Community."
Believers shared money with whom?
[A 2:45]	They sold their property and possessions and shared the money with those in need.

Question number 3 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
Let whom take what?
[A 1:20]	Peter continued, "This was written in the book of Psalms, where it says, 'Let his home become desolate, with no one living in it.' It also says, 'Let someone else take his position.'

Question number 4 for 30 points. Statement and essence question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
The phrase "lawless Gentiles" is found in one verse. Give, in essence, this verse.
[A 2:23]	But God knew what would happen, and his prearranged plan was carried out when Jesus was betrayed. With the help of lawless Gentiles, you nailed him to a cross and killed him.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
To whom did all the believers lift their, quote, "voices together in prayer"?
[A 4:24]	When they heard the report, all the believers lifted their voices together in prayer to God: "O Sovereign Lord, Creator of heaven and earth, the sea, and everything in them-

Question number 6 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
What was predicted long ago by whom?
[A 1:16]	"Brothers," he said, "the Scriptures had to be fulfilled concerning Judas, who guided those who arrested Jesus. This was predicted long ago by the Holy Spirit,  speaking through King David.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
What has now become the cornerstone?
[A 4:11]	For Jesus is the one referred to in the Scriptures, where it says, 'The stone that you  builders rejected has now become the cornerstone.'

Question number 8 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
While Peter and John were speaking to the people, what happened?
[A 4:1]	While Peter and John were speaking to the people, they were confronted by the  priests, the captain of the Temple guard, and some of the Sadducees.

Question number 9 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
According to the 15th verse, Israel did what and God did what?
[A 3:15]	You killed the author of life, but God raised him from the dead. And we are witnesses of this fact!

Question number 10 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 3.
Which Nazarene is named?
[A 3:6]	But Peter said, "I don't have any silver or gold for you. But I'll give you what I have. In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, get up and walk!"

Question number 11 for 20 points. 3-Part question. From the section titled, "The Believers Share Their Possessions."
What was brought to whom, why?
[A 4:35]	and bring the money to the apostles to give to those in need.

Question number 12 for 30 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 3.
According to the 22nd verse, Moses said what?
[A 3:22]	'The LORD your God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from among your own people. Listen carefully to everything he tells you.'

Question number 13 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
How does the opening verse describe the believers?
[A 2:1]	On the day of Pentecost all the believers were meeting together in one place.

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Form a Community."
According to the opening verse, all the believers shared in what?
[A 2:42]	All the believers devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, and to fellowship, and to sharing in meals (including the Lord's Supper), and to prayer.

Question number 15 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
In what did Peter exclaim, quote, "get up and walk"?
[A 3:6]	But Peter said, "I don't have any silver or gold for you. But I'll give you what I have. In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, get up and walk!"

Question number 16 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
In many ways, what did Jesus prove to the apostles?
[A 1:3]	During the forty days after he suffered and died, he appeared to the apostles from time to time, and he proved to them in many ways that he was actually alive. And he talked to them about the Kingdom of God.

Question number 17 for 20 points. 3-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 11th verse, who spoke in what about what?
[A 2:11]	(both Jews and converts to Judaism), Cretans, and Arabs. And we all hear these  people speaking in our own languages about the wonderful things God has done!"

Question number 18 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
Listen carefully to what?
[A 3:22]	Moses said, 'The LORD your God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from among your own people. Listen carefully to everything he tells you.'

Question number 19 for 20 points. Quotation question. From Acts.
Quote verse 35 from the 2nd chapter.
[A 2:35]	until I humble your enemies, making them a footstool under your feet."'

Question number 20 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 39th verse, who calls those far away?
[A 2:39]	This promise is to you, to your children, and to those far away- all who have been called by the Lord our God."

Question number 1 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
How does the 7th verse describe Sapphira?
[A 5:7]	About three hours later his wife came in, not knowing what had happened.

Question number 2 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Who could stand against what?
[A 6:10]	None of them could stand against the wisdom and the Spirit with which Stephen  spoke.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 34 from the 7th chapter.
[A 7:34]	I have certainly seen the oppression of my people in Egypt. I have heard their groans and have come down to rescue them. Now go, for I am sending you back to Egypt.'

Question number 4 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
The phrase "flame of a burning bush" is found in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 7:30]	"Forty years later, in the desert near Mount Sinai, an angel appeared to Moses in the flame of a burning bush.

Question number 5 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Stephen fell to what?
[A 7:60]	He fell to his knees, shouting, "Lord, don't charge them with this sin!" And with that, he died.

Question number 6 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Calling out to Moses, what did the LORD say and how did Moses react?
[A 7:32]	'I am the God of your ancestors- the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.' Moses shook with terror and did not dare to look.

Question number 7 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
After flogging the apostles, what did the others do?
[A 5:40]	The others accepted his advice. They called in the apostles and had them flogged.
Then they ordered them never again to speak in the name of Jesus, and they let them  go.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
God abandoned ancestors to do what?
[A 7:42]	Then God turned away from them and abandoned them to serve the stars of heaven  as their gods! In the book of the prophets it is written, 'Was it to me you were bringing sacrifices and offerings during those forty years in the wilderness, Israel?

Question number 9 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who are witnesses of these things?
[A 5:32]	We are witnesses of these things and so is the Holy Spirit, who is given by God to those who obey him."

Question number 10 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 5.
What kind of jail is mentioned?
[A 5:18]	They arrested the apostles and put them in the public jail.

Question number 11 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
Until when did the Tabernacle stay in the new territory?
[A 7:45]	Years later, when Joshua led our ancestors in battle against the nations that God drove out of this land, the Tabernacle was taken with them into their new territory. And it stayed there until the time of King David.

Question number 12 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 38th verse, what advice did Gamaliel give?
[A 5:38]	"So my advice is, leave these men alone. Let them go. If they are planning and  doing these things merely on their own, it will soon be overthrown.

Question number 13 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 28th verse, Moses killed whom, when?
[A 7:28]	'Are you going to kill me as you killed that Egyptian yesterday?'

Question number 14 for 20 points. 3-Part question. 4-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who arrested whom without what?
[A 5:26]	The captain went with his Temple guards and arrested the apostles, but without violence, for they were afraid the people would stone them.

Question number 15 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
How does the 47th verse describe Solomon?
[A 7:47]	But it was Solomon who actually built it.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Who said Stephen was, quote, "always speaking against the holy Temple"?
[A 6:13]	The lying witnesses said, "This man is always speaking against the holy Temple and against the law of Moses.

Question number 17 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 7th verse, God said what?
[A 7:7]	'But I will punish the nation that enslaves them and in the end they will come out and worship me here in this place.'

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 40th verse, who accepted what?
[A 5:40]	The others accepted his advice. They called in the apostles and had them flogged.
Then they ordered them never again to speak in the name of Jesus, and they let them go.

Question number 19 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Who did Moses say will raise up a, quote, "Prophet like me"?
[A 7:37]	"Moses himself told the people of Israel, 'God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from among your own people.'

Question number 20 for 20 points. 2-Part question. 3-Part answer. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 29th verse, who replied what?
[A 5:29]	But Peter and the apostles replied, "We must obey God rather than any human  authority.

Question number 1 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Prophets predicted the coming of whom?
[A 7:52]	Name one prophet your ancestors didn't persecute! They even killed the ones who predicted the coming of the Righteous One- the Messiah whom you betrayed and  murdered.

Question number 2 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 40th verse, Moses brought whom out of where?
[A 7:40]	They told Aaron, 'Make us some gods who can lead us, for we don't know what has become of this Moses, who brought us out of Egypt.'

Question number 3 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
God counted the apostles worthy to do what?
[A 5:41]	The apostles left the high council rejoicing that God had counted them worthy to suffer disgrace for the name of Jesus.

Question number 4 for 30 points. Scripture text essence question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Give, in essence, the verse that says Stephen gazed, quote, "steadily into heaven."
[A 7:55]	But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed steadily into heaven and saw the glory of God, and he saw Jesus standing in the place of honor at God's right hand.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
After raising Jesus from the dead, what did God do?
[A 5:31]	Then God put him in the place of honor at his right hand as Prince and Savior. He did this so the people of Israel would repent of their sins and be forgiven.

Question number 6 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 58th verse, Stephen's accusers did what?
[A 7:58]	and dragged him out of the city and began to stone him. His accusers took off their  coats and laid them at the feet of a young man named Saul.

Question number 7 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 5.
What kind of orders are mentioned?
[A 5:28]	"We gave you strict orders never again to teach in this man's name!" he said. "Instead, you have filled all Jerusalem with your teaching about him, and you want to make us responsible for his death!"

Question number 8 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
How does the 37th verse describe Judas?
[A 5:37]	After him, at the time of the census, there was Judas of Galilee. He got people to  follow him, but he was killed, too, and all his followers were scattered.

Question number 9 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
The Jewish leaders dragged Stephen where?
[A 7:58]	and dragged him out of the city and began to stone him. His accusers took off their coats and laid them at the feet of a young man named Saul.

Question number 10 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
How does the 54th verse describe the Jewish leaders?
[A 7:54]	The Jewish leaders were infuriated by Stephen's accusation, and they shook their  fists at him in rage.

Question number 11 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
God promised what, despite what?
[A 7:5]	"But God gave him no inheritance here, not even one square foot of land. God did promise, however, that eventually the whole land would belong to Abraham and his descendants- even though he had no children yet.

Question number 12 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
In the 35th verse, how did Gamaliel address his colleagues?
[A 5:35]	Then he said to his colleagues, "Men of Israel, take care what you are planning to do to these men!

Question number 13 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
When did an angel appear to Moses?
[A 7:30]	"Forty years later, in the desert near Mount Sinai, an angel appeared to Moses in the flame of a burning bush.

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
If the apostles were doing these things merely on their own, what would happen?
[A 5:38]	"So my advice is, leave these men alone. Let them go. If they are planning and doing these things merely on their own, it will soon be overthrown.

Question number 15 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
According to the 14th verse, what did lying witnesses say?
[A 6:14]	We have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy the Temple and  change the customs Moses handed down to us."

Question number 16 for 20 points. Quotation completion question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Finish this verse, quote, "Forty years later..."
[A 7:30]	"Forty years later, in the desert near Mount Sinai, an angel appeared to Moses in the flame of a burning bush.

Question number 17 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
To an idol shaped like a calf, what did the ancestors do?
[A 7:41]	So they made an idol shaped like a calf, and they sacrificed to it and celebrated over  this thing they had made.

Question number 18 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
How does Luke complete the phrase, quote, "teachers of"?
[A 6:12]	This roused the people, the elders, and the teachers of religious law. So they arrested Stephen and brought him before the high council.

Question number 19 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
What did Gamaliel say would be true if the apostles' movement, quote, "is from God"?
[A 5:39]	But if it is from God, you will not be able to overthrow them. You may even find  yourselves fighting against God!"

Question number 20 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Who doesn't live in, quote, "temples made by human hands"?
[A 7:48]	However, the Most High doesn't live in temples made by human hands. As the prophet says,

Question number 1 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 28th verse, who killed whom?
[A 7:28]	'Are you going to kill me as you (Moses) killed that Egyptian yesterday?'

Question number 2 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Seven Men Chosen to Serve."
Responsibility is mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 6:3]	And so, brothers, select seven men who are well respected and are full of the Spirit and wisdom. We will give them this responsibility.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Groans are mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 7:34]	I have certainly seen the oppression of my people in Egypt. I have heard their groans and have come down to rescue them. Now go, for I am sending you back to Egypt.'

Question number 4 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
How does the 32nd verse describe the apostles?
[A 5:32]	We are witnesses of these things and so is the Holy Spirit, who is given by God to  those who obey him."

Question number 5 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
Why did God send ancestors into exile, quote, "as far away as Babylon"?
[A 7:43]	No, you carried your pagan gods- the shrine of Molech, the star of your god  Rephan, and the images you made to worship them. So I will send you into exile as far away as Babylon.'

Question number 6 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
One day, what happened?
[A 6:9]	But one day some men from the Synagogue of Freed Slaves, as it was called, started  to debate with him. They were Jews from Cyrene, Alexandria, Cilicia, and the  province of Asia.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
To whom did Gamaliel exclaim, quote, "Men of Israel, take care what you are planning to do to these men!"?
[A 5:35]	Then he said to his colleagues, "Men of Israel, take care what you are planning to do to these men!

Question number 8 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 6th verse, what did God tell Abraham?
[A 7:6]	God also told him that his descendants would live in a foreign land, where they  would be oppressed as slaves for 400 years.

Question number 9 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who raised Jesus from the dead, when?
[A 5:30]	The God of our ancestors raised Jesus from the dead after you killed him by  hanging him on a cross.

Question number 10 for 30 points. Give 4 complete answers. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Accepting Gamaliel's advice, what did the others do?
[A 5:40]	The others accepted his advice. They called in the apostles and had them flogged.
Then they ordered them never again to speak in the name of Jesus, and they let them  go.

Question number 11 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
The Twelve called a meeting of whom?
[A 6:2]	So the Twelve called a meeting of all the believers. They said, "We apostles should spend our time teaching the word of God, not running a food program.

Question number 12 for 20 points. 3-Part question. From Acts chapter 7.
Who gave whom favor before whom?
[A 7:10]	and rescued him from all his troubles. And God gave him favor before Pharaoh,

Question number 13 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
God would punish whom?
[A 7:7]	'But I will punish the nation that enslaves them,' God said, 'and in the end they will come out and worship me here in this place.'

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
Who decided to kill the apostles?
[A 5:33]	When they heard this, the high council was furious and decided to kill them.

Question number 15 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
When did the number of our people in Egypt greatly increase?
[A 7:17]	"As the time drew near when God would fulfill his promise to Abraham, the number of our people in Egypt greatly increased.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Who were the assembly of, quote, "God's people in the wilderness"?
[A 7:38]	Moses was with our ancestors, the assembly of God's people in the wilderness, when the angel spoke to him at Mount Sinai. And there Moses received life-giving words to pass on to us.

Question number 17 for 10 points. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who were standing outside?
[A 5:23]	"The jail was securely locked, with the guards standing outside, but when we opened the gates, no one was there!"

Question number 18 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 27th verse, what did the man in the wrong do and say?
[A 7:27]	"But the man in the wrong pushed Moses aside. 'Who made you a ruler and judge  over us?' he asked.

Question number 19 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From Acts chapter 7.
Moses was powerful in what?
[A 7:22]	Moses was taught all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was powerful in both speech and action.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Why did the temple guards return to the council?
[A 5:22]	But when the Temple guards went to the jail, the men were gone. So they returned to the council and reported,

Question number 1 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
For how long had Simon the sorcerer astounded, quote, "with his magic"?
[A 8:11]	They listened closely to him because for a long time he had astounded them with his magic.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
What resulted from Philip's message of, quote, "Good News concerning the Kingdom of God"? [A 8:12]	But now the people believed Philip's message of Good News concerning the
Kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ. As a result, many men and women  were baptized.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
How does the closing verse describe Philip?
[A 8:40]	Meanwhile, Philip found himself farther north at the town of Azotus. He preached  the Good News there and in every town along the way until he came to Caesarea.

Question number 4 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Repent of what and pray to whom?
[A 8:22]	Repent of your wickedness and pray to the Lord. Perhaps he will forgive your evil thoughts,

Question number 5 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Before going into the city, what did the voice tell Saul to do?
[A 9:6]	Now get up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do."

Question number 6 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Persecution Scatters the Believers."
Who were scattered where?
[A 8:1]	Saul was one of the witnesses, and he agreed completely with the killing of Stephen. A great wave of persecution began that day, sweeping over the church in Jerusalem; and all the believers except the apostles were scattered through the  regions of Judea and Samaria.

Question number 7 for 30 points. Scripture text essence question. From Acts chapter 9.
Give, in essence, the verse in which believers are referred to as, quote, "followers of the Way."
[A 9:2]	He requested letters addressed to the synagogues in Damascus, asking for their cooperation in the arrest of any followers of the Way he found there. He wanted to bring them- both men and women- back to Jerusalem in chains.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
How does the 15th verse describe Peter and John?
[A 8:15]	As soon as they arrived, they prayed for these new believers to receive the Holy  Spirit.

Question number 9 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
The Lord spoke to whom in a vision?
[A 9:10]	Now there was a believer in Damascus named Ananias. The Lord spoke to him in a vision, calling, "Ananias!" "Yes, Lord!" he replied.

Question number 10 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Who had not yet come upon any of the new believers?
[A 8:16]	The Holy Spirit had not yet come upon any of them, for they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.

Question number 11 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the 20th verse, who exclaimed what? [A 8:20]	Peter
[]	"May your money be destroyed with you for thinking God's gift can be bought!

Question number 12 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
The eunuch asked Philip if the prophet was talking about whom?
[A 8:34]	The eunuch asked Philip, "Tell me, was the prophet talking about himself or someone else?"

Question number 13 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
According to the 4th verse, Saul heard what?
[A 9:4]	He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, "Saul! Saul! Why are you  persecuting me?"

Question number 14 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
When Philip started out, what happened and why?
[A 8:27]	So he started out, and he met the treasurer of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority  under the Kandake, the queen of Ethiopia. The eunuch had gone to Jerusalem to  worship,

Question number 15 for 10 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
Saul ate what and regained what?
[A 9:19]	Afterward he ate some food and regained his strength. Saul stayed with the believers in Damascus for a few days.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
When did evil spirits scream?
[A 8:7]	Many evil spirits were cast out, screaming as they left their victims. And many who had been paralyzed or lame were healed.

Question number 17 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
When did Peter and John return to Jerusalem?
[A 8:25]	After testifying and preaching the word of the Lord in Samaria, Peter and John returned to Jerusalem. And they stopped in many Samaritan villages along the way to preach the Good News.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Meanwhile, what did Saul do?
[A 9:1]	Meanwhile, Saul was uttering threats with every breath and was eager to kill the  Lord's followers. So he went to the high priest.

Question number 19 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the 12th verse, who were baptized?
[A 8:12]	But now the people believed Philip's message of Good News concerning the Kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ. As a result, many men and women were baptized.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
According to the opening verse, Philip was told to go where?
[A 8:26]	As for Philip, an angel of the Lord said to him, "Go south down the desert road that  runs from Jerusalem to Gaza."

Question number 1 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 8.
How does Luke complete the phrase, quote, "treasurer of"? [A 8:27]	Ethiopia

Question number 2 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 4 from the 9th chapter.
[A 9:4]	He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, "Saul! Saul! Why are you persecuting me?"

Question number 3 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Jesus' descendants are mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 8:33]	He was humiliated and received no justice. Who can speak of his descendants? For his life was taken from the earth."

Question number 4 for 30 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Straight Street is named in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 9:11]	The Lord said, "Go over to Straight Street, to the house of Judas. When you get there, ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul. He is praying to me right now.

Question number 5 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
According to the 8th verse, what happened when Saul opened his eyes?
[A 9:8]	Saul picked himself up off the ground, but when he opened his eyes he was blind.
So his companions led him by the hand to Damascus.

Question number 6 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
As they rode alone, Philip and the eunuch came to what?
[A 8:36]	As they rode along, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, "Look! There's some water! Why can't I be baptized?"

Question number 7 for 30 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the closing verse, what did Philip do?
[A 8:40]	Meanwhile, Philip found himself farther north at the town of Azotus. He preached  the Good News there and in every town along the way until he came to Caesarea.

Question number 8 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
How did Saul want to bring followers of the Way, quote, "back to Jerusalem"?
[A 9:2]	He requested letters addressed to the synagogues in Damascus, asking for their cooperation in the arrest of any followers of the Way he found there. He wanted to bring them- both men and women- back to Jerusalem in chains.

Question number 9 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
When Simon saw that the Spirit was given when the apostles laid their hands on people, what did he do? [A 8:18]	When Simon saw that the Spirit was given when the apostles laid their hands on
people, he offered them money to buy this power.

Question number 10 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
How does the 31st verse describe the eunuch?
[A 8:31]	The man replied, "How can I, unless someone instructs me?" And he urged Philip to  come up into the carriage and sit with him.

Question number 11 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Why did Peter tell Simon, quote, "You can have no part in this"?
[A 8:21]	You can have no part in this, for your heart is not right with God.

Question number 12 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
According to the 12th verse, the Lord had shown Saul what?
[A 9:12]	I have shown him a vision of a man named Ananias coming in and laying hands on  him so he can see again."

Question number 13 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Who was humiliated?
[A 8:33]	He (Jesus) was humiliated and received no justice. Who can speak of his descendants? For his life was taken from the earth."

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Who was named Ananias?
[A 9:10]	Now there was a believer in Damascus named Ananias. The Lord spoke to him in a vision, calling, "Ananias!" "Yes, Lord!" he replied.

Question number 15 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
The Holy Spirit spoke to whom? [A 8:29]	Philip

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Philip's message was about what?
[A 8:12]	But now the people believed Philip's message of Good News concerning the  Kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ. As a result, many men and women were baptized.

Question number 17 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Where did the Lord tell Ananias to go and who did the Lord tell him to ask for?
[A 9:11]	The Lord said, "Go over to Straight Street, to the house of Judas. When you get there, ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul. He is praying to me right now.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
The apostles in Jerusalem did what?
[A 8:14]	When the apostles in Jerusalem heard that the people of Samaria had accepted God's  message, they sent Peter and John there.

Question number 19 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the 24th verse, pray to whom?
[A 8:24]	"Pray to the Lord for me," Simon exclaimed, "that these terrible things you've said won't happen to me!"

Question number 20 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Who claimed to be, quote, "someone great"?
[A 8:9]	A man named Simon had been a sorcerer there for many years, amazing the people of Samaria and claiming to be someone great.

Question number 1 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
What did Simon the sorcerer offer the apostles to, quote, "buy this power"?
[A 8:18]	When Simon saw that the Spirit was given when the apostles laid their hands on people, he offered them money to buy this power.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 9.
After being baptized, what did Saul do?
[A 9:19]	Afterward he ate some food and regained his strength. Saul stayed with the  believers in Damascus for a few days.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Give 3 complete answers. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the 25th verse, what did Peter and John do?
[A 8:25]	After testifying and preaching the word of the Lord in Samaria, Peter and John returned to Jerusalem. And they stopped in many Samaritan villages along the way  to preach the Good News.

Question number 4 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 9.
According to the 18th verse, Saul regained what?
[A 9:18]	Instantly something like scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he regained his sight. Then he got up and was baptized.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
The Lord chose Saul to do what?
[A 9:15]	But the Lord said, "Go, for Saul is my chosen instrument to take my message to the  Gentiles and to kings, as well as to the people of Israel.

Question number 6 for 30 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Shearers are mentioned in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 8:32]	The passage of Scripture he had been reading was this: "He was led like a sheep to the slaughter. And as a lamb is silent before the shearers, he did not open his mouth.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Peter and John prayed for the new believers to receive whom?
[A 8:15]	As soon as they arrived, they prayed for these new believers to receive the Holy  Spirit.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
As for Philip, what happened?
[A 8:26]	As for Philip, an angel of the Lord said to him, "Go south down the desert road that  runs from Jerusalem to Gaza."

Question number 9 for 10 points. 3-Part answer. From Acts chapter 9.
Saul was chosen to take the Lord's message to whom?
[A 9:15]	But the Lord said, "Go, for Saul is my chosen instrument to take my message to the  Gentiles and to kings, as well as to the people of Israel.

Question number 10 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Concerning prayer, which exclamation is found?
[A 8:24]	"Pray to the Lord for me that these terrible things you've said won't happen to me!"

Question number 11 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Laying his hands on Saul, what did Ananias say?
[A 9:17]	So Ananias went and found Saul. He laid his hands on him and said, "Brother Saul,  the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road, has sent me so that you might  regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."

Question number 12 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
How long had Simon been a sorcerer?
[A 8:9]	A man named Simon had been a sorcerer there for many years, amazing the people of Samaria and claiming to be someone great.

Question number 13 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 16 from the 8th chapter.
[A 8:16]	The Holy Spirit had not yet come upon any of them, for they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
After going into the city, what would Saul be told?
[A 9:6]	Now get up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do."

Question number 15 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Who had gone to Jerusalem to worship?
[A 8:27]	So he started out, and he met the treasurer of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority  under the Kandake, the queen of Ethiopia. The eunuch had gone to Jerusalem to worship,

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
What vision did the Lord show Saul?
[A 9:12]	I have shown him a vision of a man named Ananias coming in and laying hands on  him so he can see again."

Question number 17 for 20 points. 3-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 8.
According to the 29th verse, who said what to whom?
[A 8:29]	The Holy Spirit said to Philip, "Go over and walk along beside the carriage."

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
According to the Old Testament, what is silent before whom?
[A 8:32]	The passage of Scripture he had been reading was this: "He was led like a sheep to the slaughter. And as a lamb is silent before the shearers, he did not open his mouth.

Question number 19 for 10 points. 2-Part scripture text question. From Acts chapter 8.
Who asked whom, quote, "Tell me, was the prophet talking about himself or someone else?"
[A 8:34]	The eunuch asked Philip, "Tell me, was the prophet talking about himself or someone else?"

Question number 20 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Why did Simon ask Peter and John to, quote, "let me have this power, too"?
[A 8:19]	"Let me have this power, too," he exclaimed, "so that when I lay my hands on  people, they will receive the Holy Spirit!"

Question number 1 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
What had the Lord given Peter?
[A 10:33]	So I sent for you at once, and it was good of you to come. Now we are all here, waiting before God to hear the message the Lord has given you."

Question number 2 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
Who lived where?
[A 10:1]	In Caesarea there lived a Roman army officer named Cornelius, who was a captain  of the Italian Regiment.

Question number 3 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give 4 complete answers. From Acts chapter 10.
According to the 38th verse, God did what and Jesus did what?
[A 10:38]	And you know that God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with  power. Then Jesus went around doing good and healing all who were oppressed by  the devil, for God was with him.

Question number 4 for 20 points. Statement and essence question. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
Proofs are mentioned in one verse. Give, in essence, this verse.
[A 9:22]	Saul's preaching became more and more powerful, and the Jews in Damascus couldn't refute his proofs that Jesus was indeed the Messiah.

Question number 5 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
Why were Jews watching for Saul at the, quote, "city gate"?
[A 9:24]	They were watching for him day and night at the city gate so they could murder  him, but Saul was told about their plot.

Question number 6 for 30 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
What happened the, quote, "following day"?
[A 10:24]	They arrived in Caesarea the following day. Cornelius was waiting for them and had  called together his relatives and close friends.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
For how long did Cornelius ask Peter to stay with them?
[A 10:48]	So he gave orders for them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Afterward Cornelius asked him to stay with them for several days.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 10.
According to the 31st verse, what did the man in dazzling clothes tell Cornelius?
[A 10:31]	'Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your gifts to the poor have been noticed by God!

Question number 9 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
How does the 40th verse describe Peter?
[A 9:40]	But Peter asked them all to leave the room; then he knelt and prayed. Turning to the  body he said, "Get up, Tabitha." And she opened her eyes! When she saw Peter, she  sat up!

Question number 10 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
According to all who heard him, why had Saul come to Damascus?
[A 9:21]	All who heard him were amazed. "Isn't this the same man who caused such devastation among Jesus' followers in Jerusalem?" they asked. "And didn't he come here to arrest them and take them in chains to the leading priests?"

Question number 11 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
The men Cornelius sent asked if who was staying at Simon's house?
[A 10:18]	they asked if a man named Simon Peter was staying there.

Question number 12 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
What spread through where?
[A 9:42]	The news spread through the whole town, and many believed in the Lord.

Question number 13 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Going downstairs, what did Peter say?
[A 10:21]	So Peter went down and said, "I'm the man you are looking for. Why have you  come?"

Question number 14 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
Why were the believers in Jerusalem afraid of Saul?
[A 9:26]	They did not believe he had truly become a believer!

Question number 15 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Who said to Peter, quote, "Three men have come looking for you"?
[A 10:19]	Meanwhile, as Peter was puzzling over the vision, the Holy Spirit said to him, "Three men have come looking for you.

Question number 16 for 20 points. 3-Part question. 4-Part answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
What had been received by whom as what?
[A 10:4]	Cornelius stared at him in terror. "What is it, sir?" he asked the angel. And the angel replied, "Your prayers and gifts to the poor have been received by God as an  offering!

Question number 17 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From Acts chapter 10.
According to the 13th verse, after telling Peter to get up, what did the voice tell him to do? [A 10:13]	Then a voice said to him, "Get up, Peter; kill and eat them."

Question number 18 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
When did an angel exclaim, quote, "Cornelius!"?
[A 10:3]	One afternoon about three o'clock, he had a vision in which he saw an angel of God  coming toward him. "Cornelius!" the angel said.

Question number 19 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
Tabitha did kind things for whom and helped whom?
[A 9:36]	There was a believer in Joppa named Tabitha (which in Greek is Dorcas). She was always doing kind things for others and helping the poor.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
As soon as the angel was gone, what did Cornelius do?
[A 10:7]	As soon as the angel was gone, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a  devout soldier, one of his personal attendants.

Question number 1 for 10 points. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
The Gentiles were praising whom?
[A 10:46]	For they heard them speaking in other tongues and praising God. Then Peter asked,

Question number 2 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
The phrase "third day" is found in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 10:40]	but God raised him to life on the third day. Then God allowed him to appear,

Question number 3 for 30 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 10.
Verse 47 contains which question?
[A 10:47]	"Can anyone object to their being baptized, now that they have received the Holy Spirit just as we did?"

Question number 4 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
Who helped Tabitha up?
[A 9:41]	He (Peter) gave her his hand and helped her up. Then he called in the widows and all the believers, and he presented her to them alive.

Question number 5 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
Cornelius asked the angel what question and the angel exclaimed what in reply? [A 10:4]	What is it, sir?
[]	Your prayers and gifts to the poor have been received by God as an offering!

Question number 6 for 30 points. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
Bringing Saul to the apostles, what did Barnabas tell them?
[A 9:27]	Then Barnabas brought him to the apostles and told them how Saul had seen the  Lord on the way to Damascus and how the Lord had spoken to Saul. He also told them that Saul had preached boldly in the name of Jesus in Damascus.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
Cornelius was a captain of what?
[A 10:1]	In Caesarea there lived a Roman army officer named Cornelius, who was a captain of the Italian Regiment.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
Meanwhile, Peter did what?
[A 9:32]	Meanwhile, Peter traveled from place to place, and he came down to visit the  believers in the town of Lydda.

Question number 9 for 30 points. Quotation completion question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
Finish this verse, quote, "So he gave..."
[A 10:48]	So he gave orders for them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Afterward Cornelius asked him to stay with them for several days.

Question number 10 for 10 points. 3-Part answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
In the sheet were all sorts of what?
[A 10:12]	In the sheet were all sorts of animals, reptiles, and birds.

Question number 11 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
Who did Cornelius send, quote, "off to Joppa"?
[A 10:7]	As soon as the angel was gone, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a  devout soldier, one of his personal attendants.

Question number 12 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
How does the 43rd verse describe Peter?
[A 9:43]	And Peter stayed a long time in Joppa, living with Simon, a tanner of hides.

Question number 13 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
Who turned to the Lord?
[A 9:35]	Then the whole population of Lydda and Sharon saw Aeneas walking around, and they turned to the Lord.

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
As Peter entered Cornelius' home, where did Cornelius fall?
[A 10:25]	As Peter entered his home, Cornelius fell at his feet and worshiped him.

Question number 15 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
How many days ago was Cornelius praying in his house?
[A 10:30]  Cornelius replied, "Four days ago I was praying in my house about this same time, three o'clock in the afternoon. Suddenly, a man in dazzling clothes was standing in front of me.

Question number 16 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
What happened when Peter was, quote, "very perplexed"?
[A 10:17]	Peter was very perplexed. What could the vision mean? Just then the men sent by  Cornelius found Simon's house. Standing outside the gate,

Question number 17 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
The Jews in Damascus couldn't do what?
[A 9:22]	Saul's preaching became more and more powerful, and the Jews in Damascus couldn't refute his proofs that Jesus was indeed the Messiah.

Question number 18 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
Who plotted together to kill Saul?
[A 9:23]	After a while some of the Jews plotted together to kill him.

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
How does the 23rd verse describe Peter?
[A 10:23]	So Peter invited the men to stay for the night. The next day he went with them,  accompanied by some of the brothers from Joppa.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
What amazed the Jewish believers?
[A 10:45]	The Jewish believers who came with Peter were amazed that the gift of the Holy  Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles, too.

Question number 1 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 9.
Saul proved that Jesus was whom?
[A 9:22]	Saul's preaching became more and more powerful, and the Jews in Damascus couldn't refute his proofs that Jesus was indeed the Messiah.

Question number 2 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
Generously, what did Cornelius do and regularly, what did he do?
[A 10:2]	He was a devout, God-fearing man, as was everyone in his household. He gave generously to the poor and prayed regularly to God.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Scripture text essence question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
Give, in essence, that verse that says Cornelius asked Peter to stay for, quote, "several days."
[A 10:48]	So he gave orders for them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Afterward Cornelius asked him to stay with them for several days.

Question number 4 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 9.
The word "large" is used to describe what?
[A 9:25]	So during the night, some of the other believers lowered him in a large basket through an opening in the city wall.

Question number 5 for 20 points. 3-Part question. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 9.
Verse 26 names which individual, names which geographical location, and contains which exclamation? [A 9:26]	Saul
[]	Jerusalem
[]	They did not believe he had truly become a believer!

Question number 6 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
God showed Peter what?
[A 10:28]	Peter told them, "You know it is against our laws for a Jewish man to enter a
Gentile home like this or to associate with you. But God has shown me that I should  no longer think of anyone as impure or unclean.

Question number 7 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
How does the 27th verse describe Barnabas?
[A 9:27]	Then Barnabas brought him to the apostles and told them how Saul had seen the  Lord on the way to Damascus and how the Lord had spoken to Saul. He also told  them that Saul had preached boldly in the name of Jesus in Damascus.

Question number 8 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
In Cornelius' vision, who was coming toward him?
[A 10:3]	One afternoon about three o'clock, he had a vision in which he saw an angel of God coming toward him. "Cornelius!" the angel said.

Question number 9 for 20 points. Scripture text quotation question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
Quote the verse that says Jesus will judge both the, quote, "living and the dead."
[A 10:42]	And he ordered us to preach everywhere and to testify that Jesus is the one appointed by God to be the judge of all- the living and the dead.

Question number 10 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Why did the Holy Spirit tell Peter, quote, "Don't worry"?
[A 10:20]	Get up, go downstairs, and go with them without hesitation. Don't worry, for I have  sent them."

Question number 11 for 20 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
Who had peace where?
[A 9:31]	The church then had peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and it became stronger as the believers lived in the fear of the Lord. And with the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, it also grew in numbers.

Question number 12 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Whose prayer had been heard? [A 10:31]	Cornelius

Question number 13 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
According to the 30th verse, what did Cornelius reply?
[A 10:30]   Cornelius replied, "Four days ago I was praying in my house about this same time,  three o'clock in the afternoon. Suddenly, a man in dazzling clothes was standing in  front of me.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
What did the angel command Cornelius to do after exclaiming, quote, "Your prayers and gifts to the poor have been received by God as an offering!"?
[A 10:5]	Now send some men to Joppa, and summon a man named Simon Peter.

Question number 15 for 20 points. 2-Part chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
To Aeneas, what did Peter say?
[A 9:34]	Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you!
Get up, and roll up your sleeping mat!

Question number 16 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
The Good News was for whom?
[A 10:36]	This is the message of Good News for the people of Israel- that there is peace with God through Jesus Christ, who is Lord of all.

Question number 17 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
About noon, what happened?
[A 10:9]	The next day as Cornelius's messengers were nearing the town, Peter went up on the  flat roof to pray. It was about noon,

Question number 18 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Who was well respected by, quote, "all the Jews"?
[A 10:22]	They said, "We were sent by Cornelius, a Roman officer. He is a devout and God- fearing man, well respected by all the Jews. A holy angel instructed him to summon you to his house so that he can hear your message."

Question number 19 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
Who were amazed that the Holy Spirit had been, quote, "poured out on the Gentiles"?
[A 10:45]	The Jewish believers who came with Peter were amazed that the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles, too.

Question number 20 for 10 points. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
The apostles were ordered to preach where?
[A 10:42]	And he ordered us to preach everywhere and to testify that Jesus is the one appointed by God to be the judge of all- the living and the dead.

Question number 1 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Who told Philip to, quote, "Go south down the desert road"?
[A 8:26]	As for Philip, an angel of the Lord said to him, "Go south down the desert road that runs from Jerusalem to Gaza."

Question number 2 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 18th verse, what did the council do?
[A 4:18]	So they called the apostles back in and commanded them never again to speak or  teach in the name of Jesus.

Question number 3 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Ascension of Jesus."
When would the apostles receive power?
[A 1:8]	But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me everywhere- in Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth."

Question number 4 for 30 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
The phrase "fear of the Lord" appears in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 9:31]	The church then had peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and it became stronger as the believers lived in the fear of the Lord. And with the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, it also grew in numbers.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Seeing what amazed Moses?
[A 7:30]	"Forty years later, in the desert near Mount Sinai, an angel appeared to Moses in the  flame of a burning bush.

Question number 6 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
For how long did Saul remain in Damascus blind?
[A 9:9]	He remained there blind for three days and did not eat or drink.

Question number 7 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Instead, the high priest said the apostles had done what?
[A 5:28]	"We gave you strict orders never again to teach in this man's name!" he said. "Instead, you have filled all Jerusalem with your teaching about him, and you want  to make us responsible for his death!"

Question number 8 for 20 points. Statement and essence question. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
The unique word "humiliated" appears in one verse. Give, in essence, this verse.
[A 8:33]	He was humiliated and received no justice. Who can speak of his descendants? For his life was taken from the earth."

Question number 9 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 7.
In the 42nd verse, how does God address ancestors?
[A 7:42]	Then God turned away from them and abandoned them to serve the stars of heaven as their gods! In the book of the prophets it is written, 'Was it to me you were bringing sacrifices and offerings during those forty years in the wilderness, Israel?

Question number 10 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
How does the 43rd verse describe the believers?
[A 2:43]	A deep sense of awe came over them all, and the apostles performed many  miraculous signs and wonders.

Question number 11 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
The place of honor is where?
[A 7:55]	But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed steadily into heaven and saw the glory of God, and he saw Jesus standing in the place of honor at God's right hand.

Question number 12 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 44th verse, all the believers did what?
[A 2:44]	And all the believers met together in one place and shared everything they had.

Question number 13 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
According to what was everything, quote, "determined beforehand"?
[A 4:28]	But everything they did was determined beforehand according to your will.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
Peter was staying where?
[A 10:6]	He is staying with Simon, a tanner who lives near the seashore.

Question number 15 for 30 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
How did Stephen reply to the high priest's question, quote, "Are these accusations true?"
[A 7:2]	This was Stephen's reply: "Brothers and fathers, listen to me. Our glorious God  appeared to our ancestor Abraham in Mesopotamia before he settled in Haran.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who joined Theudas?
[A 5:36]	Some time ago there was that fellow Theudas, who pretended to be someone great.
About 400 others joined him, but he was killed, and all his followers went their various ways. The whole movement came to nothing.

Question number 17 for 20 points. 2-Part question. 3-Part answer. From the section titled, "Saul in Damascus and Jerusalem."
The church became stronger when and grew how?
[A 9:31]	The church then had peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and it became stronger as the believers lived in the fear of the Lord. And with the encouragement  of the Holy Spirit, it also grew in numbers.

Question number 18 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
By means of what did Moses do what?
[A 7:36]	And by means of many wonders and miraculous signs, he led them out of Egypt,  through the Red Sea, and through the wilderness for forty years.

Question number 19 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
What is glad?
[A 2:26]	No wonder my heart is glad, and my tongue shouts his praises! My body rests in hope.

Question number 20 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
Who asked Peter to stay with them for, quote, "several days"? [A 10:48]	Cornelius

Question number 1 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Who were baptized?
[A 2:41]	Those who believed what Peter said were baptized and added to the church that day- about 3,000 in all.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
According to the 11th verse, in Peter's trance, what happened?
[A 10:11]	He saw the sky open, and something like a large sheet was let down by its four  corners.

Question number 3 for 20 points. 3-Part question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
Who publicly endorsed whom, how?
[A 2:22]	"People of Israel, listen! God publicly endorsed Jesus the Nazarene by doing  powerful miracles, wonders, and signs through him, as you well know.

Question number 4 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
When was Aeneas healed?
[A 9:34]	Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you! Get up, and roll up your sleeping  mat!" And he was healed instantly.

Question number 5 for 30 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
When was the Tabernacle taken with the ancestors, quote, "into their new territory"?
[A 7:45]	Years later, when Joshua led our ancestors in battle against the nations that God  drove out of this land, the Tabernacle was taken with them into their new territory. And it stayed there until the time of King David.

Question number 6 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
Who anointed whom?
[A 10:38]	And you know that God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. Then Jesus went around doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
As what did Pharaoh's daughter raise Moses?
[A 7:21]	When they had to abandon him, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him and raised him as her own son.

Question number 8 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 30 from the 5th chapter.
[A 5:30]	The God of our ancestors raised Jesus from the dead after you killed him by hanging him on a cross.

Question number 9 for 30 points. Quotation question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
Quote the verse in which Cornelius is named.
[A 10:48]	So he gave orders for them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Afterward Cornelius asked him to stay with them for several days.

Question number 10 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Where were the ancestors' bodies buried?
[A 7:16]	Their bodies were taken to Shechem and buried in the tomb Abraham had bought  for a certain price from Hamor's sons in Shechem.

Question number 11 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Obey God rather than what?
[A 5:29]	But Peter and the apostles replied, "We must obey God rather than any human  authority.

Question number 12 for 20 points. 3-Part answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
The council was made up of whom?
[A 4:5]	The next day the council of all the rulers and elders and teachers of religious law met in Jerusalem.

Question number 13 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 12th verse, the apostles were doing what and all the believers were doing what? [A 5:12]	The apostles were performing many miraculous signs and wonders among the 
people. And all the believers were meeting regularly at the Temple in the area  known as Solomon's Colonnade.

Question number 14 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Who carried the Tabernacle where?
[A 7:44]	"Our ancestors carried the Tabernacle with them through the wilderness. It was constructed according to the plan God had shown to Moses.

Question number 15 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
As soon as Peter arrived, where was he taken?
[A 9:39]	So Peter returned with them; and as soon as he arrived, they took him to the upstairs  room. The room was filled with widows who were weeping and showing him the coats and other clothes Dorcas had made for them.

Question number 16 for 20 points. 6-Part answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
Jumping up, what did the man who had been lame do?
[A 3:8]	He jumped up, stood on his feet, and began to walk! Then, walking, leaping, and praising God, he went into the Temple with them.

Question number 17 for 20 points. 2-Part question. 3-Part answer. From the section titled, "Persecution Scatters the Believers."
Saul dragged out whom, why?
[A 8:3]	But Saul was going everywhere to destroy the church. He went from house to house, dragging out both men and women to throw them into prison.

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 34th verse, what were sold?
[A 4:34]	There were no needy people among them, because those who owned land or houses would sell them

Question number 19 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
Abraham circumcised Isaac when?
[A 7:8]	"God also gave Abraham the covenant of circumcision at that time. So when Abraham became the father of Isaac, he circumcised him on the eighth day. And the practice was continued when Isaac became the father of Jacob, and when Jacob became the father of the twelve patriarchs of the Israelite nation.

Question number 20 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Who ordered the carriage to stop?
[A 8:38]	He (the eunuch) ordered the carriage to stop, and they went down into the water, and Philip baptized him.

Question number 1 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
For a Jewish man, what is, quote, "against our laws"?
[A 10:28]	Peter told them, "You know it is against our laws for a Jewish man to enter a  Gentile home like this or to associate with you. But God has shown me that I should no longer think of anyone as impure or unclean.

Question number 2 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
What kind of joy is mentioned?
[A 8:8]	So there was great joy in that city.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
How does the 16th verse describe Judas?
[A 1:16]	"Brothers," he said, "the Scriptures had to be fulfilled concerning Judas, who  guided those who arrested Jesus. This was predicted long ago by the Holy Spirit,  speaking through King David.

Question number 4 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
After kneeling, what did Peter do?
[A 9:40]	But Peter asked them all to leave the room; then he knelt and prayed. Turning to the body he said, "Get up, Tabitha." And she opened her eyes! When she saw Peter, she sat up!

Question number 5 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Ananias and Sapphira."
What was Ananias' to, quote, "sell or not sell"?
[A 5:4]	The property was yours to sell or not sell, as you wished. And after selling it, the money was also yours to give away. How could you do a thing like this? You weren't lying to us but to God!"

Question number 6 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 7.
From whom did Abraham buy a tomb, where?
[A 7:16]	Their bodies were taken to Shechem and buried in the tomb Abraham had bought for a certain price from Hamor's sons in Shechem.

Question number 7 for 30 points. Scripture text question. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
What did Peter and John do after preaching the, quote, "word of the Lord in Samaria"?
[A 8:25]	After testifying and preaching the word of the Lord in Samaria, Peter and John returned to Jerusalem. And they stopped in many Samaritan villages along the way  to preach the Good News.

Question number 8 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Ascension of Jesus."
Who suddenly stood among the apostles?
[A 1:10]	As they strained to see him rising into heaven, two white-robed men suddenly stood among them.

Question number 9 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 15th verse, what did the council do?
[A 4:15]	So they ordered Peter and John out of the council chamber and conferred among  themselves.

Question number 10 for 20 points. 3-Part question. From the section titled, "Persecution Scatters the Believers."
Who buried whom, how?
[A 8:2]	(Some devout men came and buried Stephen with great mourning.)

Question number 11 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
About the census, what did Gamaliel say?
[A 5:37]	After him, at the time of the census, there was Judas of Galilee. He got people to follow him, but he was killed, too, and all his followers were scattered.

Question number 12 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
Through what will everyone have their sins forgiven?
[A 10:43]	He is the one all the prophets testified about, saying that everyone who believes in him will have their sins forgiven through his name."

Question number 13 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Share Their Possessions."
For instance, what was true?
[A 4:36]	For instance, there was Joseph, the one the apostles nicknamed Barnabas (which  means "Son of Encouragement"). He was from the tribe of Levi and came from the  island of Cyprus.

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
According to the 7th verse, Jewish leaders brought in whom?
[A 4:7]	They brought in the two disciples and demanded, "By what power, or in whose name, have you done this?"

Question number 15 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Persuaded men said what?
[A 6:11]	So they persuaded some men to lie about Stephen, saying, "We heard him  blaspheme Moses, and even God."

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
How does the 44th verse describe the believers?
[A 2:44]	And all the believers met together in one place and shared everything they had.

Question number 17 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Who did not realize what?
[A 7:25]	Moses assumed his fellow Israelites would realize that God had sent him to rescue  them, but they didn't.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Who did Saul want to bring back to, quote, "Jerusalem in chains"?
[A 9:2]	He requested letters addressed to the synagogues in Damascus, asking for their cooperation in the arrest of any followers of the Way he found there. He wanted to bring them- both men and women- back to Jerusalem in chains.

Question number 19 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
In rage, what did the Jewish leaders do?
[A 7:54]	The Jewish leaders were infuriated by Stephen's accusation, and they shook their  fists at him in rage.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
With whom were all the apostles, quote, "constantly united in prayer"?
[A 1:14]	They all met together and were constantly united in prayer, along with Mary the  mother of Jesus, several other women, and the brothers of Jesus.

Question number 1 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 32nd verse, who shook with what?
[A 7:32]	'I am the God of your ancestors- the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.' Moses shook with terror and did not dare to look.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 6th verse, Jews heard what?
[A 2:6]	When they heard the loud noise, everyone came running, and they were bewildered to hear their own languages being spoken by the believers.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Statement and quotation question. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
The phrase "general public" appears in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 10:41]	not to the general public, but to us whom God had chosen in advance to be his witnesses. We were those who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.

Question number 4 for 20 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
What spoke again and what did it say?
[A 10:15]	But the voice spoke again: "Do not call something unclean if God has made it  clean."

Question number 5 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 5.
How does Luke complete the phrase, quote, "God of"?
[A 5:30]	The God of our ancestors raised Jesus from the dead after you killed him by hanging him on a cross.

Question number 6 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
Who was being carried in, when?
[A 3:2]	As they approached the Temple, a man lame from birth was being carried in. Each day he was put beside the Temple gate, the one called the Beautiful Gate, so he could beg from the people going into the Temple.

Question number 7 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
How does the 55th verse describe Stephen?
[A 7:55]	But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed steadily into heaven and saw the glory of  God, and he saw Jesus standing in the place of honor at God's right hand.

Question number 8 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 1.
When the Holy Spirit comes upon you, what will you receive?
[A 1:8]	But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me everywhere- in Jerusalem, throughout Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth."

Question number 9 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
When Joseph sent for them, who came to Egypt?
[A 7:14]	Then Joseph sent for his father, Jacob, and all his relatives to come to Egypt, seventy-five persons in all.

Question number 10 for 30 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 2.
Verse 36 contains which exclamation?
[A 2:36]	"So let everyone in Israel know for certain that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, to be both Lord and Messiah!"

Question number 11 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Persecution Scatters the Believers."
Saul was going everywhere to destroy what?
[A 8:3]	But Saul was going everywhere to destroy the church. He went from house to house, dragging out both men and women to throw them into prison.

Question number 12 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
According to the 3rd verse, what did Peter say?
[A 5:3]	Then Peter said, "Ananias, why have you let Satan fill your heart? You lied to the  Holy Spirit, and you kept some of the money for yourself.

Question number 13 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Ancestors killed those who predicted what?
[A 7:52]	Name one prophet your ancestors didn't persecute! They even killed the ones who predicted the coming of the Righteous One- the Messiah whom you betrayed and murdered.

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Receive the Holy Spirit."
Who fell upon all who were listening to the message?
[A 10:44]	Even as Peter was saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell upon all who were listening to the message.

Question number 15 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Who was from Nazareth?
[A 6:14]	We have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy the Temple and change the customs Moses handed down to us."

Question number 16 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Persecution Scatters the Believers."
What swept over what?
[A 8:1]	Saul was one of the witnesses, and he agreed completely with the killing of Stephen. A great wave of persecution began that day, sweeping over the church in  Jerusalem; and all the believers except the apostles were scattered through the regions of Judea and Samaria.

Question number 17 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
What privilege did David ask for?
[A 7:46]	"David found favor with God and asked for the privilege of building a permanent  Temple for the God of Jacob.

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
According to the opening verse, by what had Peter not made the man walk?
[A 3:12]	Peter saw his opportunity and addressed the crowd. "People of Israel," he said, "what is so surprising about this? And why stare at us as though we had made this man walk by our own power or godliness?

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
After bringing in the two disciples, leaders did what?
[A 4:7]	They brought in the two disciples and demanded, "By what power, or in whose  name, have you done this?"

Question number 20 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Why did Saul's companions lead him, quote, "by the hand to Damascus"?
[A 9:8]	Saul picked himself up off the ground, but when he opened his eyes he was blind.
So his companions led him by the hand to Damascus.

Question number 1 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 3.
Jesus must remain where until the time for the, quote, "final restoration of all things"?
[A 3:21]	For he must remain in heaven until the time for the final restoration of all things, as God promised long ago through his holy prophets.

Question number 2 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Jacob heard what and did what as a result?
[A 7:12]	Jacob heard that there was still grain in Egypt, so he sent his sons- our ancestors-  to buy some.

Question number 3 for 20 points. 2-Part question. 3-Part answer. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 36th verse, God made whom to be what?
[A 2:36]	"So let everyone in Israel know for certain that God has made this Jesus, whom you  crucified, to be both Lord and Messiah!"

Question number 4 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
Who baptized the eunuch? [A 8:38]	Philip

Question number 5 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
How does the 42nd verse describe the apostles?
[A 5:42]	And every day, in the Temple and from house to house, they continued to teach and  preach this message: "Jesus is the Messiah."

Question number 6 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
As Peter was puzzling over the vision, what happened?
[A 10:19]	Meanwhile, as Peter was puzzling over the vision, the Holy Spirit said to him,  "Three men have come looking for you.

Question number 7 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
What is the Lord's throne and what is the Lord's footstool?
[A 7:49]	'Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. Could you build me a temple as good as that?' asks the LORD. 'Could you build me such a resting place?

Question number 8 for 30 points. Statement and quotation question. From Acts chapter 4.
One verse says the meeting place shook. Quote this verse.
[A 4:31]	After this prayer, the meeting place shook, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. Then they preached the word of God with boldness.

Question number 9 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
After repenting and being baptized, what did Peter say would happen?
[A 2:38]	Peter replied, "Each of you must repent of your sins and turn to God, and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. Then you will  receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.

Question number 10 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Who stood outside the gate?
[A 10:17]	Peter was very perplexed. What could the vision mean? Just then the men sent by  Cornelius found Simon's house. Standing outside the gate,

Question number 11 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Someone arrived with what?
[A 5:25]	Then someone arrived with startling news: "The men you put in jail are standing in  the Temple, teaching the people!"

Question number 12 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 1.
How does the 3rd verse describe Jesus?
[A 1:3]	During the forty days after he suffered and died, he appeared to the apostles from  time to time, and he proved to them in many ways that he was actually alive. And  he talked to them about the Kingdom of God.

Question number 13 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
In whose name should you be baptized?
[A 2:38]	Peter replied, "Each of you must repent of your sins and turn to God, and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. Then you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
When did a light from heaven shine down around Saul?
[A 9:3]	As he was approaching Damascus on this mission, a light from heaven suddenly shone down around him.

Question number 15 for 10 points. From Acts chapter 5.
The word "leading" is used to describe what?
[A 5:24]	When the captain of the Temple guard and the leading priests heard this, they were perplexed, wondering where it would all end.

Question number 16 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From Acts chapter 2.
According to the 18th verse, who will pour out whom?
[A 2:18]	In those days I (God) will pour out my Spirit even on my servants- men and women alike- and they will prophesy.

Question number 17 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Why did crowds listen, quote, "intently to Philip"?
[A 8:6]	Crowds listened intently to Philip because they were eager to hear his message and  see the miraculous signs he did.

Question number 18 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 42 from the 10th chapter.
[A 10:42]	And he ordered us to preach everywhere and to testify that Jesus is the one appointed by God to be the judge of all- the living and the dead.

Question number 19 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
What was washed for burial?
[A 9:37]	About this time she became ill and died. Her body was washed for burial and laid in an upstairs room.

Question number 20 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
The next day, what happened?
[A 4:5]	The next day the council of all the rulers and elders and teachers of religious law  met in Jerusalem.

Question number 1 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
What day will arrive?
[A 2:20]	The sun will become dark, and the moon will turn blood red before that great and glorious day of the LORD arrives.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Ascension of Jesus."
As Jesus' witnesses, what would the apostles do?
[A 1:8]	But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses, telling people about me everywhere- in Jerusalem, throughout  Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth."

Question number 3 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 10.
How does the 33rd verse describe Cornelius?
[A 10:33]	So I sent for you at once, and it was good of you to come. Now we are all here,  waiting before God to hear the message the Lord has given you."

Question number 4 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Referring to the new believers in Samaria, why had the Holy Spirit, quote, "not yet come upon any of them"?
[A 8:16]	The Holy Spirit had not yet come upon any of them, for they had only been baptized  in the name of the Lord Jesus.

Question number 5 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 5.
Gamaliel ordered that the men be sent where?
[A 5:34]	But one member, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, who was an expert in religious law and respected by all the people, stood up and ordered that the men be sent outside  the council chamber for a while.

Question number 6 for 30 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
When the high priest and his officials arrived, what did they do?
[A 5:21]	So at daybreak the apostles entered the Temple, as they were told, and immediately began teaching. When the high priest and his officials arrived, they convened the  high council- the full assembly of the elders of Israel. Then they sent for the  apostles to be brought from the jail for trial.

Question number 7 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
With what did God promise that one of David's descendants would sit, quote, "on his throne"?
[A 2:30]	But he was a prophet, and he knew God had promised with an oath that one of David's own descendants would sit on his throne.

Question number 8 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
For how long had Aeneas been both, quote, "paralyzed and bedridden"?
[A 9:33]	There he met a man named Aeneas, who had been paralyzed and bedridden for eight years.

Question number 9 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 2.
How does the 30th verse describe David?
[A 2:30]	But he was a prophet, and he knew God had promised with an oath that one of  David's own descendants would sit on his throne.

Question number 10 for 20 points. Statement and quotation question. From Acts chapter 1.
The phrase "chosen apostles" is found in one verse. Quote this verse.
[A 1:2]	until the day he was taken up to heaven after giving his chosen apostles further instructions through the Holy Spirit.

Question number 11 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
What did Peter declare when the voice said, quote, "Get up, Peter; kill and eat them"?
[A 10:14]	"No, Lord," Peter declared. "I have never eaten anything that our Jewish laws have  declared impure and unclean."

Question number 12 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
Who was also known as Justus?
[A 1:23]	So they nominated two men: Joseph called Barsabbas (also known as Justus) and Matthias.

Question number 13 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Cornelius Calls for Peter."
Send whom to Joppa?
[A 10:5]	Now send some men to Joppa, and summon a man named Simon Peter.

Question number 14 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 24 from the 2nd chapter.
[A 2:24]	But God released him from the horrors of death and raised him back to life, for death could not keep him in its grip.

Question number 15 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter and John before the Council."
How many men believed?
[A 4:4]	But many of the people who heard their message believed it, so the number of men who believed now totaled about 5,000.

Question number 16 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches to the Crowd."
About footstools, what did David say?
[A 2:35]	until I humble your enemies, making them a footstool under your feet."'

Question number 17 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Simon was held captive by what?
[A 8:23]	for I can see that you are full of bitter jealousy and are held captive by sin."

Question number 18 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 3rd verse, God told Abraham what?
[A 7:3]	'Leave your native land and your relatives, and come into the land that I will show you.'

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give 4 complete answers. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
After Tabitha sat up, what did Peter do?
[A 9:41]	He gave her his hand and helped her up. Then he called in the widows and all the  believers, and he presented her to them alive.

Question number 20 for 20 points. 3-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
Peter and John went where, when, and why?
[A 3:1]	Peter and John went to the Temple one afternoon to take part in the three o'clock  prayer service.

Question number 1 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Why was Peter very perplexed?
[A 10:17]	What could the vision mean?

Question number 2 for 10 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 4.
Who shared what?
[A 4:32]	All the believers were united in heart and mind. And they felt that what they owned was not their own, so they shared everything they had.

Question number 3 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 3.
How does the 13th verse describe Jesus?
[A 3:13]	For it is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob- the God of all our ancestors-  who has brought glory to his servant Jesus by doing this. This is the same Jesus  whom you handed over and rejected before Pilate, despite Pilate's decision to  release him.

Question number 4 for 20 points. Scripture text quotation question. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
Quote the verse that says the Jews demanded the, quote, "release of a murderer."
[A 3:14]	You rejected this holy, righteous one and instead demanded the release of a murderer.

Question number 5 for 20 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 5.
Verse 23 contains what exclamation?
[A 5:23]	"The jail was securely locked, with the guards standing outside, but when we opened the gates, no one was there!"

Question number 6 for 10 points. Scripture text question. From Acts chapter 9.
What became stronger as the believers lived in the, quote, "fear of the Lord"?
[A 9:31]	The church then had peace throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and it became stronger as the believers lived in the fear of the Lord. And with the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, it also grew in numbers.

Question number 7 for 30 points. 2-Part question. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
What practice was continued, when?
[A 7:8]	"God also gave Abraham the covenant of circumcision at that time. So when  Abraham became the father of Isaac, he circumcised him on the eighth day. And the practice was continued when Isaac became the father of Jacob, and when Jacob  became the father of the twelve patriarchs of the Israelite nation.

Question number 8 for 20 points. 4-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
According to the 2nd verse, who appeared to whom, where, and when?
[A 7:2]	This was Stephen's reply: "Brothers and fathers, listen to me. Our glorious God appeared to our ancestor Abraham in Mesopotamia before he settled in Haran.

Question number 9 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Matthias Replaces Judas."
Who deserted whom?
[A 1:25]	as an apostle to replace Judas in this ministry, for he has deserted us and gone where he belongs."

Question number 10 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
According to the 15th verse, why did the Lord tell Ananias to go?
[A 9:15]	But the Lord said, "Go, for Saul is my chosen instrument to take my message to the  Gentiles and to kings, as well as to the people of Israel.

Question number 11 for 20 points. 3-Part answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Who were roused?
[A 6:12]	This roused the people, the elders, and the teachers of religious law. So they arrested Stephen and brought him before the high council.

Question number 12 for 10 points. 2-Part chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 6.
Verse 11 names which individuals? [A 6:11]	Stephen
[]	Moses

Question number 13 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 7.
How does the 31st verse describe Moses?
[A 7:31]	When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight. As he went to take a closer look,  the voice of the LORD called out to him,

Question number 14 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Where did the Holy Spirit tell Peter to go?
[A 10:20]	Get up, go downstairs, and go with them without hesitation. Don't worry, for I have sent them."

Question number 15 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
What happened here in this, quote, "very city"?
[A 4:26]	The kings of the earth prepared for battle; the rulers gathered together against the  LORD and against his Messiah.'

Question number 16 for 10 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
What will come from the, quote, "presence of the Lord"?
[A 3:20]	Then times of refreshment will come from the presence of the Lord, and he will again send you Jesus, your appointed Messiah.

Question number 17 for 20 points. 2-Part scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Who preached what, quote, "wherever they went"?
[A 8:4]	But the believers who were scattered preached the Good News about Jesus wherever they went.

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Stephen Addresses the Council."
Who found favor with whom?
[A 7:46]	"David found favor with God and asked for the privilege of building a permanent Temple for the God of Jacob.

Question number 19 for 20 points. Give 2 complete answers. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
After a light from heaven shone down around him, what did Saul do?
[A 9:4]	He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, "Saul! Saul! Why are you  persecuting me?"

Question number 20 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Stephen Is Arrested."
Who stared at Stephen?
[A 6:15]	At this point everyone in the high council stared at Stephen, because his face became as bright as an angel's.

Question number 1 for 10 points. 2-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Holy Spirit Comes."
Jews stood there how?
[A 2:12]	They stood there amazed and perplexed. "What can this mean?" they asked each other.

Question number 2 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Visits Cornelius."
Before asking "Why have you come?", what did Peter immediately say?
[A 10:21]	So Peter went down and said, "I'm the man you are looking for. Why have you come?"

Question number 3 for 20 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Peter Preaches in the Temple."
All the prophets did what?
[A 3:18]	But God was fulfilling what all the prophets had foretold about the Messiah- that  he must suffer these things.

Question number 4 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
How does the 2nd verse describe the Twelve?
[A 6:2]	So the Twelve called a meeting of all the believers. They said, "We apostles should  spend our time teaching the word of God, not running a food program.

Question number 5 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Holy Spirit Comes."
What ability did the Holy Spirit give?
[A 2:4]	And everyone present was filled with the Holy Spirit and began speaking in other  languages, as the Holy Spirit gave them this ability.

Question number 6 for 20 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "The Believers Form a Community."
Who performed what?
[A 2:43]	A deep sense of awe came over them all, and the apostles performed many  miraculous signs and wonders.

Question number 7 for 10 points. From the section titled, "Peter Heals a Crippled Beggar."
By which hand did Peter take the lame man?
[A 3:7]	Then Peter took the lame man by the right hand and helped him up. And as he did, the man's feet and ankles were instantly healed and strengthened.

Question number 8 for 20 points. 3-Part question. From the section titled, "Peter Heals Aeneas and Raises Dorcas."
What spread where, and what resulted?
[A 9:42]	The news spread through the whole town, and many believed in the Lord.

Question number 9 for 30 points. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 9.
How does the 17th verse describe Ananias?
[A 9:17]	So Ananias went and found Saul. He laid his hands on him and said, "Brother Saul,  the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road, has sent me so that you might  regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."

Question number 10 for 10 points. Chapter analysis answer. From Acts chapter 4.
The council met where?
[A 4:5]	Jerusalem

Question number 11 for 20 points. Essence question. From Acts.
Give, in essence, verse 2 from the opening chapter.
[A 1:2]	until the day he was taken up to heaven after giving his chosen apostles further instructions through the Holy Spirit.

Question number 12 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Who did Gamaliel tell to take care of what?
[A 5:35]	Then he said to his colleagues, "Men of Israel, take care what you are planning to  do to these men!

Question number 13 for 30 points. 2-Part scripture text question. Give 3 complete answers. From the section titled, "Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch."
What did Philip do and say when the Holy Spirit said, quote, "Go over and walk along beside the carriage"?
[A 8:30]	Philip ran over and heard the man reading from the prophet Isaiah. Philip asked, "Do you understand what you are reading?"

Question number 14 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
In whose name did the high priest give strict orders never again to teach?
[A 5:28]	"We gave you strict orders never again to teach in this man's name!" he said. "Instead, you have filled all Jerusalem with your teaching about him, and you want to make us responsible for his death!"

Question number 15 for 20 points. 2-Part question. Give a complete answer. From Acts chapter 6.
According to the 8th verse, who was Stephen and what did he do?
[A 6:8]	Stephen, a man full of God's grace and power, performed amazing miracles and  signs among the people.

Question number 16 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Gentiles Hear the Good News."
How was Jesus put to death?
[A 10:39]	"And we apostles are witnesses of all he did throughout Judea and in Jerusalem.
They put him to death by hanging him on a cross,

Question number 17 for 20 points. Scripture text question. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "The Apostles Meet Opposition."
Why did God put Jesus in the, quote, "place of honor at his right hand"?
[A 5:31]	Then God put him in the place of honor at his right hand as Prince and Savior. He did this so the people of Israel would repent of their sins and be forgiven.

Question number 18 for 10 points. 2-Part question. From the section titled, "Saul's Conversion."
Ananias laid what on whom?
[A 9:17]	So Ananias went and found Saul. He laid his hands on him (Saul) and said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road, has sent me so that you might regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."

Question number 19 for 20 points. 4-Part question. 5-Part answer. From the section titled, "The Believers Pray for Courage."
Who prepared for what and who gathered together against whom?
[A 4:26]	The kings of the earth prepared for battle; the rulers gathered together against the LORD and against his Messiah.'

Question number 20 for 10 points. Give a complete answer. From the section titled, "Philip Preaches in Samaria."
Crowds were eager to hear what?
[A 8:6]	Crowds listened intently to Philip because they were eager to hear his message and see the miraculous signs he did.
